Dear Ms. Diane Edwards, I am a teacher working at East End High School. I have read from your notice that the East End Seaport Museum is now offering a special program, the 2017 Bug Lighthouse Experience. The program would be a great opportunity for our students to have fun and experience something new. I estimate that 50 students and teachers from our school would like to participate in it. Would you please let me know if it is possible to make a group reservation for the program for Saturday, November 18? We don’t want to miss this great opportunity. I look forward to hearing from you soon. Best regards, Joseph Loach
A lot of you are now aware that Mike Cooper has accepted a position in Springfield, Illinois. Mike will be the Head Animator for Dream Animation Studio. The animation department will not be the same without him. His optimistic outlook and abundance of vigor have helped make our office a pleasant place to work. His positive contributions to the dynamics of this department will be greatly missed. He is definitely worthy of the new position. It will allow him to further his potential as well as take Dream Animation Studio to a higher level. Currently, I have no plans to replace Mike. Susan Pitt will assume full responsibility for his tasks. On behalf of all of us, I wish Mike Cooper every success at Dream Animation Studio.
Dear Mr. Johnson, It has been so many years since we started our school with the goal of providing education to poor children. Today, we have a total of five hundred students in our school. We have provided education to about 5,000 students as of today. The number of students at our school continues to increase year by year. As a result, we need to build extra classrooms so that we can easily accommodate the increasing number of students to our school. For this reason, we would like to give you the opportunity to make a donation to this cause. We hope that you will consider this opportunity to help make this work possible. We admire your interest in making essential contributions towards the betterment of society and hope that you are able to contribute to this project as well. Thank you. Yours Sincerely, Joseph Walker Principal, Walker Public School
Thank you for ordering our new product, the DMG-R5000. We are very excited about its development and know you are eager to receive your order. Because we want to make sure that the DMG-R5000 is fully tested to assure the highest possible quality, we have delayed the final production date for three weeks. Our commitment to quality sometimes demands that we bite the bullet and make tough decisions. In the end, though, we know that it’s our reputation for providing our customers with the best in diagnostic technology that keeps them coming back to us year after year. We will inform you immediately of any further changes to this scheduled release date. If you have any questions or concerns, please call me directly at 206/1555-0221, ext. 223.
Dear Ms. Griffin, My paycheck for the two-week period ending October 16 was $75.00 short. For this period I should have been paid $875.00. Instead, my check was for only $800.00. I believe I know why there may have been a discrepancy. The $75.00 additional pay for these two weeks was the result of my having put in five hours of overtime on October 8 and October 12 (2½ hours each day at $15.00 per hour). This overtime was not reflected on my current pay statement. I have double-checked with my supervisor, Gloria Arrelo, who assured me that she recorded my overtime on the timesheets she sent to your office on October 17. Thank you in advance for correcting your records and for crediting me with the additional $75.00 for my overtime. Sincerely, Robbie Burke Data Entry Clerk
The start of the boat tour was far from what I had expected. None of the wildlife I saw was exotic. I could only see dull gray rocks. It was also so hot and humid that I could not enjoy the tour fully. However, as the boat slid into the Bay Park Canal, all of a sudden my mother shouted, “Look at the mangroves!” A whole new world came into sight. The mangrove forest alongside the canal thrilled me as we entered its cool shade. I was fascinated by the beautiful leaves and flowers of the mangroves. But best of all, I was charmed by the native birds, monkeys, and lizards moving among the branches. “What a wonderful adventure!” I exclaimed.
Just as her brother does, Sara Sculpin adds to her own grace the sweet memory of the Lady Dorothy. She glides like a sunbeam through that quiet house, and in winter she makes summer with her presence. When she sits at the piano, singing in the twilight, or stands leaning against the Venus in the corner of the room, she presents herself more gracefully. Then, in glancing from her to the portrait of the gentle Dorothy, you feel that the long years between them have been lighted by the same sparkling grace, and shadowed by the same pensive smile. For this is but one Sara and one Dorothy, out of all that there are in the world.
It was a brilliant afternoon, warm and sunny, and Susan walked all the way home, thinking about the script to start. But the image of receiving an Academy Award kept coming up over and over, even though she didn’t believe it for a minute. Yet Ergil had seemed so sure. Whom should I thank? Do I want to thank Seltzer for his confidence in me and for helping me overcome writing anxiety? Do I want to thank Dana for always being available as my trustful reader? Do I want to thank my Smith-Corona electric typewriter and my el cheapo bargain typing paper for making this script possible? Do I want to thank my good friend and collaborator Ergil Feather? Let’s not get carried away here: Ergil Feather is not my collaborator, he’s the producer. He gave me my chance, but I’ll be the one to write the script. I owe it to myself and to my career.
Then it came about that Angus McAllister, sitting with his legs bent in his potting shed like some dangerous beast in its den, saw a sight which first froze his blood and then sent it boiling through his veins. Moving here and there through his sacred gardens, picking his sacred flowers, was a small girl in a cotton dress and straw hat. And — this made his blood boil more fiercely — it was the same small girl who two days before had thrown stones at him and hit him in the shin. The stillness of the summer evening was shattered by a roar that sounded like boilers exploding, and Angus McAllister came out of the potting shed at forty-five miles per hour.
The kitchen was packed with wives, all of them laughing and talking loud, none of them being helpful except for Lois from next door, who was pulling bowls out of the refrigerator. Beverly’s best friend, Wallis, was using the side of the bright chrome toaster to reapply her lipstick. Beverly’s mother was sitting at the breakfast table with the baby in her lap. They had changed her from her silk christening gown into a white dress with yellow flowers embroidered around the neck, as if she were a bride who’d slipped into her going-away dress at the end of the reception. The women in the kitchen took turns making a fuss over the baby, acting like it was their job to keep her entertained. Playful competition followed between them as they warmly argued about who would get to hold the baby next.
One exercise in teamwork I do at a company retreat is to put the group in a circle. At one particular retreat, there were eight people in the circle, and I slowly handed tennis balls to one person to start throwing around the circle. If N equals the number of people in the circle, then the maximum number of balls you can have in motion is N minus 1. Why? Because it’s almost impossible to throw and catch at the same time. The purpose of the exercise is to demonstrate the importance of an individual’s action. People are much more concerned about catching the ball than throwing it. What this demonstrates is that it’s equally important to the success of the exercise that the person you’re throwing to catches the ball as that you are able to catch the ball. If you’re less concerned about how you deliver information than with how you receive it, you’ll ultimately fail at delegation. You have to be equally skilled at both.
The ability to learn something new is based on the general state of mind of a human being. It does not depend on special talents, nor does it operate only in special fields, such as science, art, music or architecture. But when it does operate, there is an undivided and total interest in what one is doing. Recall, for example, the kind of interest that a young child shows when he is learning to walk. If you watch him, you will see that he is putting his whole being into it. Only this kind of whole-hearted interest will give the mind the energy needed to see what is new and different, especially when the latter seems to threaten what is familiar, precious, secure, or otherwise dear to us.
Endangered pandas, blue whales, rhinos, and chimpanzees generally make the headlines because they are the most appealing or visible victims. Most preservation money is spent on these species. Interest in less appealing species is often difficult to stir, but many less conspicuous species are important components of natural systems, even keystone species. Many inconspicuous species are vital to human welfare. An adult frog, for example, can eat its weight in insects every day. In India, sharp declines in the frog populations may be partly responsible for higher rates of insect damage on crops and for an increase in malaria, a serious and sometimes fatal disease transmitted by mosquitos, a main component of the frog’s diet. Losing species, therefore, is not just an aesthetic tragedy. It can have profound environmental, economic, and health consequences. Protecting species, regardless of how appealing they are, is vital to sustainability.
It is estimated that people age fifty and older spend about 48 percent of consumer dollars. They buy about 48 percent of all luxury cars, and they are responsible for about 80 percent of luxury travel. They even buy about 25 percent of all toys annually (there are about fifty-five million grandparents age fifty years and older in the United States). Nevertheless, marketing and merchandising programs commonly treat these customers as if they are much older. For example, there is the myth that older consumers are fixed on certain products and are unwilling to try new alternative products. Therefore, why should advertising of a new product be directed at older consumers? In fact, a survey of five hundred people over age fifty in shopping malls revealed that about 80 percent of them were quite willing to try new products.
How can we maintain excitement, interest, and aesthetic pleasure for a lifetime? I suspect that part of the answer will come from the study of things that stand the test of time, such as some music, literature, and art. In all these cases, the works are rich and deep, so that there is something different to be perceived in each experience. Consider classical music. For many it is boring and uninteresting, but for others it can indeed be listened to with enjoyment over a lifetime. I believe that this lastingness derives from the richness and complexity of its structure. The music interleaves multiple themes and variations, some simultaneous, some sequential. Human conscious attention is limited by what it can attend to at any moment, which means that consciousness is restricted to a limited subset of the musical relationships. As a result, each new listening focuses upon a different aspect of the music. The music is never boring because it is never the same. I believe a similar analysis will reveal similar richness for all experiences that last: classical music, art, and literature.
Most of the animal-training practices considered good and normal in our world do not take the animals’ viewpoint into account. Animals should have the right to participate, and to have a say, in their training. The true goal of training should be to get animals to do something because they want and choose to, not because we force them to. Instead, people typically get so involved in doing a program or getting a result — like winning a title in a dog show — or they worry so much about getting hurt, that they fail to listen to what their animals have to say. That’s when I get calls about the dogs who are refusing to go in the show ring or the horses who are acting crazy.
Many new college students view the college years as a chance to start over, to be who they really are, and to escape the perceptions other students had about them in high school. This is true. However, this thought process leads some students to try changing themselves to impress others. The best piece of advice you have received from family and friends is to be yourself. Your efforts to be someone other than your true self will fail. In the meantime, other students who recognize your dishonesty will be reluctant to befriend you. Soon you will feel out of place and under pressure to maintain the false identity. If you act naturally and allow yourself to make mistakes, you will find genuine friends and a place for yourself within the first month or two of college.
FOMO, or the “fear of missing out,” isn’t unique to the age of Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat. For generations before, people still invited some people to parties and not others, only now there’s pictorial proof that you weren’t there. At its root, the fear of missing out stems from the idea that this party, this concert, this show, this event will be the best thing ever and that if you don’t go, you’ll regret it forever. Sure, there are some things you shouldn’t miss, but mindfulness is about assessing how you feel in the present moment. If you’d prefer to spend a Friday night in reading a book rather than going to a party, do it. Don’t think about what you might miss by not going, but rather what you’ll gain by staying. Use FOMO to your advantage by thinking of why exactly you’re afraid to miss out on this thing, and consider it an opportunity to grow.
One of the most important things that young adults need to understand is that any time you are trying to live a normal and decent life, you will always find people that will hate you for that. That is how most young people compromise in some situations. They give up on what they believe is right and go with the crowd, and later pay the consequences. What you have to understand is the people who hate you are jealous because of the fact that they cannot have such good behaviors, so they choose to hate you. When you have something good, don’t give it up for foolish people who never stand for anything good. It’s better for them to call you names for your good behaviors than for you to compromise with them. They can call you old-fashioned; whatever they want, it’s their business.
Sensory-specific satiety is defined as a decrease in appetite, or the subjective liking for the food that is consumed, with little change in the hedonics of uneaten food. As a result of sensoryspecific satiety, when people consume a variety of foods, they tend to overeat. A greater variety of food leads people to eat more than they would otherwise. So, being full and feeling sated are separate matters. The recovery of appetite or the motivation to eat is apparent to anyone who has consumed a large meal and is quite full, and does not require additional energy or nutrients to meet their daily needs, but decides to consume additional calories after seeing the dessert cart. Small changes in the sensory properties of foods are sufficient to increase food intake. For example, subjects who were presented with different shapes of pasta showed increased hedonic ratings and increased energy consumption relative to subjects eating only a single shape of pasta. 
Many marine mammals are quite large. When an ocean-dwelling species evolves toward a bigger size, it gains several advantages. First, it takes less energy and effort to support a large body in the ocean than on land, because the pressure of the water helps to support the body. A blue whale could never live on land, even if it had legs —its massive body would require a skeleton so big that it would collapse under its own weight. Second, larger animals have less surface area (skin), compared to their overall volume (body mass), than smaller animals. A big sea-dwelling creature finds it easier to conserve warmth inside its body, while a small creature loses more heat into the water through its skin.
Our addiction to criticizing others is a huge block to effectively giving feedback. When we criticize, even if we choose our words with care, we are likely to assign others to a specific, potentially harmful, status. We are likely to assign others, for instance, to the status of being“wrong.” No one likes to be labeled “wrong.” Most people get defensive when they are labeled, even when sure they are not “wrong.” And what’s more important, defensive people block messages. Unless you are trying not to be understood, then, criticism is not an effective communication strategy. And it doesn’t help to call it “constructive” either. Saying something like, “I’m telling you this for your own development, your design is all wrong” isn’t going to produce positive results. Criticism is criticism. It blocks understanding.
After a problem which needs to be solved has been recognized, the process of defining and representing the problem may proceed with processes such as analogical thinking. To form an appropriate representation, a problem solver must often try out several different perspectives on a problem before finding one that gives insight to a solution path. One way in which a variety of representations can be found is through analogical thinking. When an analogous problem can be identified, then the solution of the present problem is partly a matter of mapping one element onto another. For example, mapping involves comparing the problems for similarity in structure and identifying their parallel elements. The solution of one problem then can guide the process of solving a novel one through this analogical mapping process.
Maps are made from data. These data may be positional, involving the latitude and longitude of a place, an address, a road, or a border. Some maps use statistical data to show such things as population; others use qualitative data such as locations of grasslands or deserts. Errors can enter when data are collected. Maps made by geographic information systems (GIS), maps on the Internet, and GPS units must be digitized. That is, the data must be put in a form that the computer can read. Some of this digitizing is done by humans plotting and entering the information, and thus, there is the potential for human error. On historic maps and even some modern maps there might be a lack of data, gaps in the data, and even erroneous data.
It has long been the responsibility of the marketers of cities and towns to promote them as possible travel destinations by developing a brand image. First the marketers’ responsibility was to assess the city for possible places and also people of interest. These places and people were then photographed and information written about their history and stories, which was then communicated, first using print and now digitally. This branded image was both developed and then controlled by marketers. The ease of taking and posting photographs along with visitors posting and sharing travel stories has changed the branding process by taking control away from the marketing department. For example, visitors posting travel images online has meant that the city is no longer in control of what sites are defined as worth visiting. Those charged with increasing tourism must still develop a promotional strategy, but it will be based on encouraging visitors to co-brand along with the professionals.
The pedagogical tradition of requiring students to raise their hands in class has the obvious instrumental purposes of establishing classroom order, testing student comprehension of content by maintaining a disciplined climate conducive to answering questions, and facilitating group discussion. Morally, however, it regulates turn-taking which inevitably involves issues of fairness, respect for others, patience, and self-control. How a teacher navigates in such routine situations is ethically significant. Thoughtlessly done, it may project the image of a teacher who discriminates, favours, or just does not care about students. Thoughtfully carried out, turn-taking may enable the teacher to ensure fair participation as well as protect both the less vocal students who may need some gentle and kindly encouragement and the more vocal ones who may become targeted for abuse by other students who grow to resent them.
The basic economic argument for congestion charges is well established. In a nutshell, it says that since travel times increase with traffic volumes, an additional car on the road slows down all other cars, increasing time costs for all the occupants of all the cars. The decision to travel made by the occupants of an additional car is based on their own travel costs (their private or internal costs). They ignore any increase in travel costs for all other car users (the external costs). This is inefficient when private costs are below the full social cost of the decision to travel. When decisions are made on the basis of “underestimates” of costs, too much of a good (in this case, travel) will be consumed. A congestion charge is intended to confront users with costs imposed on other users, so as to align private costs with social costs. The charge will suppress part of demand, reduce congestion and increase surplus.
Historians’ approaches to the past vary enormously, but some common disciplinary features unite them. There are limits to what historians can study: they can study only parts of the past that left evidence behind and for which evidence has survived. The dominant type of evidence has been documentary: government archives, private papers, newspapers and published materials have long been the most consulted forms of source. The range has recently broadened, and many historians are now happy to use artefacts, buildings, visual evidence, oral testimony and many other non-written sources. However, regardless of the type of evidence, the point is that without evidence, historians cannot function. So all studies of history are driven by the discovery of evidence from the period being studied, and its analysis and interpretation. Historians aim to describe what happened, explain how and why it happened, and link past events to wider contexts and the passage of time.
Individual authors and photographers have rights to their intellectual property during their lifetimes, and their heirs have rights for 70 years after the creator’s death, so any publication less than 125 years old has to be checked for its copyright status. The duration of copyright protection has increased steadily over the years; the life-plus-70-years standard was set by the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998, which increased the 50-year limit established by the 1976 Copyright Act. Supporters of such legislation like to defend these increases with tales of starving writers and their impoverished descendants, but in reality the beneficiaries are more likely to be transnational publishing companies. And note that copyright laws serve a dual purpose. In addition to protecting the rights of authors so as to encourage the publication of new creative works, copyright is also supposed to place reasonable time limits on those rights so that outdated works may be incorporated into new creative efforts. Therefore, the extended copyright protection frustrates new creative endeavors such as including poetry and song lyrics on Internet sites.
A client of mine proudly celebrates her age and continually relies on her thinking to maximize her cognitive potential each day. At eighty-three, she is actively involved in strategic business decisions at a financial services company. Undeterred by her numeric age, she is involved in professional projects and community programs that maintain and strengthen her brain’s fitness. Whereas most people set themselves up to go on automatic pilot during their last work days and retirement years, this is a bad state of affairs for the brain. The longer we stay actively engaged in complex thinking and meaningful work, the more energized the brain is and the more cognitive reserves are being built.
Do you think the early pioneers of America thought about payback when they helped each other build houses and barns? Everyone needed help (and we still do), so it just came naturally. Today we have put ourselves into many little isolated boxes, houses, cars, and cubicles, and it is difficult to find our way out into an open space. Working in the hospital as a therapist and an administrator for many years, I know that the people who could ask for help and graciously accept it were the ones the staff most liked to take care of. Owning our vulnerability and pain makes us all more human. It creates space for others to help us as well as to own their vulnerability. It’s not such a bad place to be.
No one could deny, once they’ve given it any thought at all, that women are responsible for the majority of consumer purchases. The proof is in the numbers: Women account for roughly 80 percent of all consumer buying. The Center for Women’s Business Research indicates that businesswomen (working women and female entrepreneurs) are the primary decision makers in households, making 95 percent of the purchasing decisions. To be more specific and drive home that point: Women are responsible for 70 percent of all travel decisions, 57 percent of all consumer electronics purchases, and they buy 50 percent of all new vehicles (influencing 80 percent of overall automobile sales). Finally, women write an estimated eight out of ten personal checks in the United States, making their financial power even greater. Women in most households today not only control the spending of their own paychecks, but a good deal of their husband’s as well.
Many times our greatest growth periods come through the experience of pain. Those of us who have experienced a dark time in life through serious illness or emotional trauma know the opportunity it brings for enormous wisdom and insight. Sometimes we have to experience the contrast of darkness in order to find the light. Indeed, there are lessons within our lives that may be much more apparent in the darkness of our despair because we focus more intensely when there are fewer things to see. It is like walking into a dark room — at first we can see nothing, yet after our eyes have had a chance to refocus, we begin to see particular items in the room even though the room is still dark. Likewise, we can have some very profound insights about areas of our life that need improvement while we are quietly lying in bed recovering from an illness, away from our hectic daily routines.
There are many questions we can ask about the origin of the universe, not all of which can be answered by science. Scientists can answer when and how the universe began, but cannot calculate the reason why it began, for example. That type of question must be explored through philosophy, religion, and other ways of thinking. The questions that scientists ask must be testable. Scientists have provided answers to testable questions that have helped us calculate the age of the universe: how distant certain stars are, how fast they are receding from us. Whether or not we can get a definitive answer, we can be confident in the process by which the explanations were developed, allowing us to rely on the knowledge that is produced through the process of science. Someday we may find evidence to help us understand why the universe was created, but for the time being science will limit itself to the last 13.7 or so billion years of phenomena to investigate.
Increasingly, globalization may force a convergence in work hours. For example, on average, German employees work about 25 percent fewer hours than their counterparts in the United States. For 25 years, German unions successfully pushed for a shorter workweek in hopes of creating more jobs. However, this resulted in German labor costs becoming the highest in the world, and German companies are now shifting jobs out of Germany in order to remain globally competitive. The recent addition of Eastern European countries to the European Union (EU) is expected to accelerate this trend. Facing the threat of job losses, French workers at a car components factory owned by a leading global supplier of vehicle technology voted to work longer hours for the same pay. Some saw this vote as the beginning of a de facto rollback of France’s 35-hour legal workweek.
The idea that we are living moments of more and lives of less is supported by a recent study in which pairs of college-aged friends were asked to communicate in four different ways: face-to-face conversation, video chat, audio chat, and online instant messaging. Then, the degree of emotional bonding in these friendships was assessed both by asking how people felt and watching how they behaved toward each other. The results were clear: In-person conversation led to the most emotional connection and online messaging led to the least. The students had tried to “warm up” their digital messages by using emoticons, typing out the sounds of laughter (“Hahaha”), and using the forced urgency of TYPING IN ALL CAPS. But these techniques had not done the job. It is when we see each other’s faces and hear each other’s voices that we become most human to each other.
The problem with most psychological tests is that they are subjective in that we must use an individual’s report of his or her own experience, behavior, or characteristics to draw conclusions about that person. The responses of even the most well-meaning subjects are going to be filtered by all kinds of factors usually involved in self-perception, not to mention the additional problems that can occur when an individual is anxious, angry, suspicious, or mentally ill. Even under the best circumstances, for instance, self-esteem tests are vulnerable to the “ceiling effect,” or the tendency to see oneself in a positive light when reporting about oneself. The most common problem that arises from this factor is that most people tend to rate themselves more favorably on positive qualities and less unfavorably on negative ones than they are likely to actually merit when compared with external standards.
 The above graph shows the sales of four types of ethical produce in the UK in 2010 and 2015. ① In 2015, the sales of each of the four types of ethical produce showed an increase from the sales of its corresponding type in 2010. ② Among the four types of ethical produce, the sales of Organic ranked the highest in 2010 but ranked the second highest in 2015. ③ Among the four types of ethical produce, Rainforest Alliance recorded the second highest sales in 2010 and recorded the highest sales in 2015. ④ The sales of Fairtrade in 2015 were twice as high as those in 2010. ⑤ In both 2010 and 2015, the sales of Vegetarian meat alternatives were the lowest among the four types of ethical produce. 
 The above graph shows the percentages of identified dogs and cats that arrived at animal shelters in Spain during the period of 2007 to 2015. ① A gradual increase in the percentage of identified dogs and a slight increase in the percentage of identified cats are observed between 2007 and 2010. ② The recovery of the percentage of identified dogs and, to a lesser extent, cats arriving at shelters can be seen after the drop observed in 2012 and 2013. ③ However, from 2007 to 2015, the percentage of identified cats is notably less than that of dogs. ④ What was worse, unlike what is being observed in the percentage of identified dogs, the percentage of identified cats that arrived at shelters in 2015 was slightly lower than the figure from 2008. ⑤ On the other hand, over 30% of dogs that arrived at shelters in 2015 were identified, which was more than a 10 percentage point increase from 2008. 
 The pie charts above show the moviegoer share of population and tickets sold in the U.S. and Canada in 2015. ① Less than one-third of the population of U.S. and Canada never went to a movie in 2015. ② One-tenth of the population of U.S. and Canada went to a movie at the cinema once a month or more in 2015. ③ The frequent moviegoers who go to the cinema once a month or more accounted for 49% of all tickets sold in the U.S. and Canada in 2015. ④ The percentage of tickets sold to frequent moviegoers was larger than that of tickets sold to occasional moviegoers. ⑤ The percentage of infrequent moviegoers was equal to that of frequent moviegoers, and the percentage of the tickets purchased by the infrequent moviegoers was only 2%. 
 The above graph shows the average number of months before smartphone users in the U.S., China, and the EU upgraded their phones during the period from 2013 to 2016. ① For both Americans and EU people, the average number of months increased every year over the whole period. ② However, the trend did not quite carry over to China since China saw a decrease in the average number of months in 2015. ③ Every year but in 2014, Americans held onto their smartphones for the longest time. ④ In 2014, EU people held onto their smartphones for 19.5 months, which was the highest average number of months in that year. ⑤ EU people held onto their smartphones for 18.3 months in 2013, which was the lowest average number of months of all. 
 The above graph shows the U.S. adults’ assessment of public health today compared with 20 years ago. ① American adults are more pessimistic than optimistic in their assessments of children’s health today. ② Nearly half (48%) of them believe the health of children as a whole is worse today than it was 20 years ago, while a smaller share believe children’s health is better today. ③ U.S. adults’ views of change in adult health over the past two decades are similarly more negative than positive. ④ 42% of them say the health of the adult population is worse today, 33% say it is better and 24% say it is about the same as it was 20 years ago. ⑤ There are large differences by age in U.S. adults’ views about public health; seniors (adults aged 65 and older) are the only age group in which more people see public health as worse rather than about the same or better today. 
The late photographer Jim Marshall is regarded as one of the most celebrated photographers of the 20th century. He holds the distinction of being the first and only photographer to be presented with the Grammy Trustees Award. He started as a professional photographer in 1959. He was given unrivaled access to rock’s biggest artists, including the Rolling Stones, Bob Dylan, and Ray Charles. He was the only photographer granted backstage access for the Beatles’ final full concert and also shot the Rolling Stones on their historic 1972 tour. He formed special bonds with the artists he worked with and those relationships helped him capture some of his most vivid and iconic imagery. Over a 50-year career, the photographs he took appeared on more than 500 album covers. He was passionate about his work up until the end. “I have no kids,” he used to say. “My photographs are my children.”
In Texas, size matters, and the Astrodome does not disappoint. This multi-purpose, domed sports stadium stands 18 stories high. Its dome is 710 feet in diameter, and the ceiling is 208 feet above the playing surface, which itself sits 25 feet below street level. The Astrodome was completed in November 1964, six months ahead of schedule, even though many significant engineering changes were required during its construction period. Originally, transparent plastic panels covered the roof of the stadium, but the bright sunlight coming through them made it difficult for baseball players to see and catch fly balls. To remedy the glare, officials painted the roof panels after the stadium opened. Bermuda grass originally covered the playing surface, but the painted ceiling panels blocked the sunlight and the grass died, prompting the development and installation of an artificial surface, now known as Astroturf.
Charlotte Baker was born in Springfield, Massachusetts, on April 11, 1833. She was the daughter of Dr. Matthew Bridge and Catharine (Catlin) Baker. The family on her mother’s side descended from Rowland Stebbins, one of the founders of Springfield. Because Baker was believed to be a delicate child, she did not attend school regularly until about age eleven, when she entered Misses Stone’s School in Greenfield, Massachusetts, and later Deerfield Academy, where she and another young woman were the only females. She eventually became an assistant teacher and in 1856 opened a school in Chicago with life-long friend Susan Minot Lane. The school was discontinued in 1864, when Baker returned to Cambridge to help her mother. She began writing book reviews and newspaper and magazine articles on botany, art, and women’s work. She also wrote a series for children, Pictures from French and English History.
TODDLER TREK (Spring Season) This interactive outdoor program is designed to give toddlers (18 months –3 years of age) an opportunity to spend some time enjoying and experiencing Nature. Your child will begin to learn the names of local animals and plants, sing songs that awaken their senses and enjoy being outside. Each session will include a short discovery walk and is geared toward the young child and their parents. Please dress according to the weather. You may also bring a picnic lunch to enjoy on the grounds at the conclusion of the program. This program requires an adult to join in the activities with their child. (One adult free with each paid child) This program requires a minimum of 5 participants and a maximum of 15. Period: March 28 –May 23 Age: 18 months –3 years of age Program fee: $10 for Save Green members; $12 for non-members Time: 10:30 –11:30 am Pre-registration required.
Palm Coast Walk for Food 2018 11th Annual Walk for Food Helping those in need Walk for Food helps those in need by: •Helping families that are in need of food •Delivering food to those who are immobile in our community Date: Saturday, November 3rd, 2018 Time: 10:00 am –1:00 pm The walk will go forward rain or shine. Location: Flagler Palm Coast High School; Sal Campanella Stadium Palm Coast, FL •Create your own team $10.00 for anyone over the age of twelve $5.00 per child up to age twelve $40.00 for a group of five •Trophy for team with most walkers •Concession stand will be open with drinks and snacks. •Games for children •Fun for the whole family •Please bring a canned good. •Monetary donation as well For more information, please contact us at: colletta44@bellsouth.net.
2018 MSU Soccer Camp The MSU soccer players and coaching staff are conducting an overnight camp for 4th –12th graders. The camp will be held June 18th –21st on the MSU campus. Entering its 14th year, the camp is one of the largest in the state of Montana and is designed to take each camper’s skills and knowledge of the game to a higher level. •Entering Grades: 4th –12th, Boys & Girls •Registration Limit: 100 Campers •Cost: $375 ($390 After June 18th) •GROUP DISCOUNT: Register 8 or more players and get 10% OFF. Each room comes with a twin-sized bed with bed sheets, a pillow & pillowcase, and a towel. All campers will also receive a soccer ball and camp T-shirt. Goalkeeper training will be provided. The safety of the campers is extremely important. Camp roll call is taken 3 times a day (morning, afternoon, and at the 10 pm bed check).
Jan van Eyck was born before 1390, but very little is known about his early life before 1422. Jan van Eyck was one of the greatest European painters of his time. He spent most of his career in Bruges in Belgium, where he worked for Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy. Philip employed him on secret diplomatic missions as well as for his artistic skills. For centuries van Eyck was regarded as the inventor of oil painting. We know that it was in fact used before his time, but he was certainly one of the first to master the technique. His craftsmanship was superb, and he created effects of glowing colour and extremely delicate detail that are still amazing to see. Because he showed the potential of oil paint so brilliantly, van Eyck is considered to be one of the most important figures in European art.
Witchetty grubs are wood-eating larvae, most commonly of the Cossid moth. They feed on the roots of river red gum trees, black wattle trees, and acacia bushes, two feet underground, and have to be dug up. They are a staple food in traditional aborigine diets and the most important insect food of the desert. They are rich in energy, protein, and fat as well as being a good source of vitamin B1, vitamin C, and essential minerals such as magnesium, zinc, iron, and calcium. Women and children searched for grubs, which were located by finding a pile of sawdust around the trees. A long hooked wire was used to catch the grubs. The grubs were eaten raw or roasted in hot ashes to crisp the skin, the flesh turning from white to golden, like roast chicken skin. The raw grub tastes nutty, while the cooked version tastes like fried egg. A paste made from witchetty grubs was used to treat wounds and burns and to soothe the sore gums of teething children. 
Village Garden Plots Distribution Join the many gardeners and plant growers who might not have room on their own property to grow a vegetable or flower garden. ■ The village of Lake has 30 spaces —20 feet by 20 feet —at the Public Works property at 9010 Haligus Road for this opportunity. ■ Each space will be roped off for you to ‘rent’ for the growing season. ■ Water will be available on-site. ■ Gardeners should bring all the tools it will take to tend their garden. We can’t guarantee a good crop but 2017 saw many sunflowers, tomatoes, and a variety of vegetables. The garden plots for 2018 will go quickly due to the huge success in 2017, so make sure to register early. Priority registration will be given to those who had a garden plot in 2017. The fee is $25 for residents and $35 for nonresidents. Plot Location 						Deadline 2017 Growers –keep plot location 	………………	12/9 2017 Growers –change plot location 	………………	12/12 thru 12/16 2018 New Growers 			………………	12/19 or until sold out
Announcing the Saint Matthew’s Talent Show Auditions! Talent show sign-ups will take place from May 7 through 11! Are you a fantastic singer, dancer, musician, actor, or do you have another talent? Or, are you interested in being our MC (Master of Ceremonies)? Would you like to share your passion with our school? Join us! Please take note of these important dates below. You must be available on these dates to be eligible to participate. • Sign-Ups: May 7 through 11 during lunch periods, outside of the Student Council Room • Initial Meeting (mandatory): Thursday, May 10 at 3:15 pm in the auditorium • Auditions: Friday, May 18, 3:15 pm – 5:15 pm (Time will be assigned to you at sign-up week.) Results will be posted Monday, May 21. • Rehearsals: Friday, June 1 and Wednesday, June 6, 3:15 pm – 5:15 pm • Talent Show: Friday, June 15 at 1:15 pm Questions? Please contact Mr. DeWitt (chris.dewitt@stmatthewacademy.net). We can’t wait to create another wonderful talent show this year!
Free Shade Trees for Your Yard We’re pleased to offer you free shade trees this fall through our Fall Shade Tree Distribution program. Remember you should plant it in your yard, not on public property. 3 Easy Steps to Get a Shade Tree Step 1: Measure Your Property – Plant on the east or west side of your home to maximize shade cover. – Your shade tree should be planted at least 30 feet away from other trees. – Plant at least 20 feet away from power lines in the air. Step 2: Submit a Form Availability is limited. Applications must be received by September 7, 2018. Please complete the request form and submit it online. You can download the form from our website at www.theparkpeople.org. Step 3: Pick Up Your Tree In mid-September, if your application is approved, you will receive a confirmation letter specifying which species you will receive and where to pick up your tree(s) on October 12, 2018.
Psychologists who study giving behavior ① have noticed that some people give substantial amounts to one or two charities, while others give small amounts to many charities. Those who donate to one or two charities seek evidence about what the charity is doing and ② what it is really having a positive impact. If the evidence indicates that the charity is really helping others, they make a substantial donation. Those who give small amounts to many charities are not so interested in whether what they are ③ doing helps others — psychologists call them warm glow givers. Knowing that they are giving makes ④ them feel good, regardless of the impact of their donation. In many cases the donation is so small — $10 or less — that if they stopped ⑤ to think, they would realize that the cost of processing the donation is likely to exceed any benefit it brings to the charity. 
The economic and technical forces that first led to language standardization and mass literacy (A) has / have continued to gain momentum. Now that economic relationships are instantaneous and global, national vocabularies have grown still larger in scope. One of the domains of our national vocabulary is international. Basic literacy in the contemporary world requires knowledge of certain terms known by literate people everywhere in the world, no matter (B) how / what language they speak. This core lexicon of modern education includes basic words from world history, world cultures, geography, and the physical and biological sciences. (C) Teaching / Taught in all national educational systems, and not confined to any particular national language, it is the most broadly shared literate vocabulary in the world. 
Diet has been known for many years ① to play a key role as a risk factor for chronic diseases. What is apparent at the global level is ② that great changes have swept the entire world since the second half of the twentieth century, inducing major modifications in diet, first in industrial regions and more recently in developing countries. Traditional, ③ largely plant-based diets have been swiftly replaced by high-fat, energy-dense diets with a substantial content of animal-based foods. But diet, while ④ critical to prevention, is just one risk factor. Physical inactivity, now recognized as an increasingly important determining factor of health, ⑤ being the result of a progressive shift of lifestyle towards more sedentary patterns, in developing countries as much as in industrialized ones. 
Better understanding of customer needs can lead to increased sales and a larger market share. Chris Craft’s Vice President and General Manager, Bob MacNeill, is a believer. He has had first-hand experience watching his company (A) improve / to improve its products by listening to customer complaints. But sometimes, MacNeill says, you have to help customers along because they do not always voice their complaints directly to the company. Some boat owners report that they do not express dissatisfaction because they are not sure what to ask for, or they fear (B) perceiving / being perceived as a nuisance by the boat dealer. Other boat owners lack confidence in the dealers’ knowledge about the boats they sell or think that everyone has these problems. So Bob MacNeill encourages his dealers to go out and interact with boat owners when they are on their boats to (C) active / actively ask for complaints. 
Indeed, in order to feel good about the choices we make, self-justification is necessary. Yet mindless self-justification, or justifying things that we know ① were mistakes for the sake of sticking to our story, can draw us deeper into disaster. It blocks our ability to even see our errors, let alone correct ② them. It distorts reality, keeping us from getting all the information we need and ③ assessing issues clearly. It deepens and widens rifts between lovers, friends, and nations. It keeps us from letting go of unhealthy habits. It permits the ④ guilty to avoid taking responsibility for their deeds, as when an employee is caught embezzling and he justifies it by saying he is very badly underpaid. It’s only through constant self-policing ⑤ which we can make sure our self-justification is mindful and not a denial of reality. 
Here’s an interesting thought. If glaciers started reforming, they have a great deal more water now to draw on — Hudson Bay, the Great Lakes, the hundreds of thousands of lakes of Canada, none of (A) them / which existed to fuel the last ice sheet — so they would grow very much quicker. And if they did start to advance again, what exactly would we do? Blast them with TNT or maybe nuclear missiles? Well, doubtless we would, but consider this. In 1964, the largest earthquake ever recorded in North America (B) rocked / rocking Alaska with 200,000 megatons of concentrated might, the equivalent of 2,000 nuclear bombs. Almost 3,000 miles away in Texas, water sloshed out of swimming pools. A street in Anchorage fell twenty feet. The quake devastated 24,000 square miles of wilderness, much of (C) it / them glaciated. And what effect did all this might have on Alaska’s glaciers? None. 
The perspectives that researchers, consultants, coaches, and athletes have about confidence ① share common elements related to athletes’ fundamental faith in their readiness to perform their best. ② Drawn on these diverse viewpoints, we define confidence as athletes’ belief in their ability to achieve their goals and fully realize their ability. Athletes ③ who have confidence are able to be positive, motivated, intense, focused, and emotionally in control when they need to be. Athletes with this belief are able to stay ④ confident even when they’re not performing well. Confident athletes are not negative and uncertain in difficult competitions and they’re not overconfident in easy competitions. Confidence also encourages athletes to seek out pressure situations and ⑤ to view difficult conditions and tough opponents as challenges to pursue. 
The fact that chimps do have basic ability when it comes to the use of arbitrary symbols (A) is / are enough to suggest the gradually building complexity in symbol-use among primates. And on that point, I’d like to put in a plug for my dog, Shep, who understands at least functionally a number of my words. When, for instance, I say we’re going to “check the mail,” he knows well that means we’re going to head out to the road and check the postal box. And though he hasn’t mastered English (B) already / yet , he does seem to use certain arbitrary noises innovatively as symbols. For example, he barks in various ways when he’s outside. But he uses one peculiar brief and muffled bark only at certain times, conveying something in the direction of “I wanna come in now.” Since the sound is distinctive, since it’s about coming in the house, and since no other dog I’ve had has ever used this rather arbitrary sound, the instance (C) leans / leaning toward real language. 
Evolutionary theorists believe that fear is an adaptive mechanism that allows us to sense danger and respond appropriately. Indeed, if ancient people had walked up to the saber-toothed tiger ① to pet the nice kitty instead of heeding their fear and fleeing, we would not be here now. People who were appropriately scared lived to reproduce and ② becoming our ancestors, and that fear response is with us still. In studies, researchers have found that children and adults alike are quicker at identifying snakes and spiders in photos than they ③ are at identifying benign items such as flowers. This supports the idea that humans have developed the ability to home in on targets ④ that carry a perceived threat, especially when that target is associated with the physiological signs and feelings of fear. Fear was key to our ancestors’ survival and although those same dangers are not ⑤ ones we face in daily life, the mechanism of fear still works the same as it always has. 
Some prominent journalists say that archaeologists should work with treasure hunters because treasure hunters have accumulated valuable historical artifacts that can reveal much about the past. But archaeologists are not asked to cooperate with tomb robbers, who also have valuable historical artifacts. The quest for profit and the search for knowledge cannot coexist in archaeology because of the ① time factor. Rather incredibly, one archaeologist employed by a treasure hunting firm said that as long as archaeologists are given six months to study shipwrecked artifacts before they are sold, no historical knowledge is ② found! On the contrary, archaeologists and assistants from the INA (Institute of Nautical Archaeology) needed more than a decade of year-round conservation before they could even ③ catalog all the finds from an eleventh-century AD wreck they had excavated. Then, to interpret those finds, they had to ④ learn Russian, Bulgarian, and Romanian, without which they would never have learned the true nature of the site. Could a “commercial archaeologist” have ⑤ waited more than a decade or so before selling the finds? 
Technological advances will enable high-performance athletes to move faster, jump higher, hit harder, and improve their consistency. However, some advances may also carry increased (A) benefit / risk to the athlete’s body, which may not stand up to the increased forces of movement. As a result, injury monitoring is critical in order to prevent harm to elite athletes who (B) embrace / resist new technology. A good example can be found in the rush to install synthetic turf on football fields some 30 years ago. Athletes could run faster and jump higher on the artificial turf, but the rate of injuries exploded because human joints simply could not withstand the force. As a result, athletes and coaches (C) forced / prohibited a return to natural grass fields in order to protect athletes’ careers and health. 
Tom dislikes his navigation system, even though he agrees that at times it would be useful. But he has no way to ① interact with the system to tailor it to his needs. Even if he can make some high-level choices — “fastest,” “shortest,” “most scenic,” or “avoid toll road” —he can’t discuss with the system why a ② particular route is chosen. He can’t know why the system thinks route A is better than route B. Does it take into account the long traffic signals and the large number of stop signs? And what if two routes barely ③ differ, perhaps by just a minute out of an hour’s journey? He isn’t given ④ alternatives that he might well prefer despite a slight cost in time. The system’s methods remain ⑤ evident so that even if Tom were tempted to trust it, the silence and secrecy promotes distrust, just as top-down business decisions made without collaboration are distrusted. 
The most direct way of undoing the damage caused by social exclusion is to bring the shy, lonely, and alienated back into the embrace of society. Unfortunately, such people tend to be regarded as (A) desirable / undesirable interaction partners by those with greater social skills. This is because they are objectively less rewarding to spend time with and because associating with them carries with it a social stigma. What is necessary, therefore, are policies to ensure that social cohesion is (B) maintained / disregarded within various social institutions, and in society at large. Small-scale programs to get lonely schoolchildren more involved can work exceedingly well. However, finding ways to reverse the increasingly individualistic trend in Western societies is a much taller order. Yet, if we value our (C) collective / individual well-being, we should do something about it; a lack of social integration goes hand in hand with a host of other social pathologies. 
If trees are weakened, it could be that they lose their conversational skills along with their ability to ① defend themselves. Otherwise, it’s difficult to explain why insect pests ② specifically seek out trees whose health is already compromised. It’s conceivable that to do this, insects listen to trees’ urgent chemical warnings and then ③ test trees that don’t pass the message on by taking a bite out of their leaves or bark. A tree’s ④ silence could be because of a serious illness or, perhaps, the loss of its fungal network, which would leave the tree completely cut off from the latest news. The tree no longer registers approaching disaster, and the doors are ⑤ closed for the caterpillar and beetle buffet. 
There is a constant tension between science and politics. From the perspective of science, policies should reflect careful consideration of the scientific data, and should be in line with the findings and recommendations of science. Scientists who offer advice to policy makers, however, often complain that their (A) input / output is ignored or distorted during the policy making process. Political values and necessities may conflict sharply with the data presented by scientists. A policy may be developed that represents a (B) comparison / compromise between the criteria determined by science and the pragmatic needs of politics. An effective policy should be cost-effective and fair, place limited demands on government, and provide assurance to the public that the goals will be met. If an administration’s position is not supported by the data, it may ask for further studies rather than (C) accept / uncover what is offered. In extreme cases, scientific data might be buried in the face of the apparent demands of politics. 
As a general rule, language extinction occurs gradually when two tongues, belonging to two peoples with ① different levels of economic development, come into contact. Speakers in the less economically advanced group who are familiar with the language of the more economically advanced group are at an obvious ② disadvantage. Their bilingualism gives them access to the economy of the more advanced group, with all the ③ benefits that flow from it — such as employment, salary and access to goods and services. As a result, they tend to consider their own language as less useful and to neglect it, using the other language with ④ increasing frequency and encouraging their own children to learn it. However, languages begin to die when children no longer learn them. This is how French dialects and numerous minority languages in the former USSR, continental China, Taiwan and Australia, for example, have ⑤ disappeared. 
One reason for fear can be explained by the ‘Monte Carlo Fallacy’. The Monte Carlo Fallacy (or Gambler’s Fallacy) is the mistaken belief that if something happens more frequently than normal during some period, then it will happen (A) less / more frequently in the future, presumably as a means of balancing nature. So if someone tossing a coin got six consecutive heads, one is likely to (B) believe / deny that the next result will be tails. The truth is that the odds haven’t changed. The odds of the next toss are still 50:50. The problem with the Monte Carlo Fallacy is that someone who has had a spate of good luck automatically tends to believe that his next venture will be unlucky or viceversa. In effect, the Monte Carlo Fallacy (C) prevents / reinforces irrational behaviour. 
Tourism takes place simultaneously in the realm of the ① imagination and that of the physical world. In contrast to literature or film, it leads to ‘real’, tangible worlds, while nevertheless remaining tied to the sphere of fantasies, dreams, wishes — and myth. It thereby ② allows the ritual enactment of mythological ideas. There is a considerable difference as to whether people watch a film about the Himalayas on television and become excited by the ‘untouched nature’ of the majestic mountain peaks, or whether they get up and go on a trek to Nepal. Even in the latter case, they ③ remain, at least partly, in an imaginary world. They experience moments that they have already seen at home in books, brochures and films. Their notions of untouched nature and friendly, innocent indigenous people will probably be ④ confirmed. But now this confirmation is anchored in a ⑤ mystical experience. The myth is thus transmitted in a much more powerful way than by television, movies or books. 
Scott Adams, the creator of Dilbert, one of the most successful comic strips of all time, says that two personal letters dramatically changed his life. One night ① he was watching a PBS-TV program about cartooning, when he decided to write to the host of the show, Jack Cassady, to ask for his advice about becoming a cartoonist. Much to ② his surprise, he heard back from Cassady within a few weeks in the form of a handwritten letter. The letter advised Adams not to be discouraged if he received early rejections. Adams got inspired and submitted some cartoons, but ③ he was quickly rejected. Not following Cassady’s advice, ④ he became discouraged, put his materials away, and decided to forget cartooning as a career. About fifteen months later, he was surprised to receive yet another letter from Cassady, especially since he hadn’t thanked ⑤ him for his original advice. He acted again on Cassady’s encouragement, but this time he stuck with it and obviously hit it big. 
One summer Sunday morning Carl was waiting for Captain Lewis at the door of ① his father’s cottage. The bells above him were ringing for church, and he was expecting every moment that his father would pass him, as usual, with his books under his arm and a kindly word for the child on ② his lips, on his way into the church. But this morning, although ③ he could see at the far end of the sunlit street the figure of the captain marching toward him, he had seen nothing of his father. Fearing that something might have delayed his father, or that he might — although that seemed impossible — have forgotten the time, ④ he turned, and ran up the stairs to his father’s room. It was a small room near his own; the big, best bedroom in which ⑤ he had been born 10 years earlier and in which his mother had died, was never used and was always kept clean and neat behind its closed door. 
After a late-night meal with his dad, Liam watched him trudge off to bed. He knew that his Dad spent most of the time working, often at different hours of the day and night. This meant ① he could never quite be sure what his father would be doing on any given day, or indeed at any given time. Liam knew now that today ② he would be allowed out. His mother would always let him out to do what ③ he pleased whenever his father wasn’t around. She felt it was just as important as his lessons that, now and again, he leave the confines of their home and have fun. His father had become somewhat paranoid after Liam had gone missing a year ago and been found on one of the deserted boats along the beach. ④ He became more concerned with what Liam did, trying to avoid any possible danger that might befall him. Yet Liam’s mother never seemed to worry, and always seemed to know exactly where her son would be and what ⑤ he would be doing at any given time. 
Jim’s eyes, wandering in the intervals of his answers, rested upon a white man who sat apart from the others, with quiet eyes that glanced straight. Jim answered another question and was tempted to cry out, “What’s the good of this!” ① He tapped with his foot slightly, bit his lip, and looked away over the heads. He met the eyes of the white man. The glance directed at ② him was not the fascinated stare of the others. It was an act of intelligent volition. Jim between two questions forgot himself so far as to find leisure for a thought. This fellow — ran the thought — looks at me as though ③ he could see somebody or something past my shoulder. ④ He had come across that man before — in the street perhaps. He was positive he had never spoken to him. For days, for many days, ⑤ he had spoken to no one but had held silent, incoherent, and endless conversation with himself, like a prisoner alone in his cell or like a wayfarer lost in a wilderness. 
Pascal was a contemporary and rival of Rene Descartes, the most prominent mathematician philosopher of his day. In 1646, Pascal began a series of experiments on atmospheric pressure. By 1647 ① he had proved to his satisfaction that vacuum existed. Descartes visited Pascal on September 23. Pascal seemed to think that Descartes could help him with ② his medical problems, but during this two-day visit, the two argued about the vacuum which Descartes did not believe in. Descartes wrote, rather cruelly, in a letter to Huygens after this visit that Pascal ‘has too much vacuum in ③ his head’. The following morning, however, he returned —not Descartes the philosopher, but Descartes the physician. ④ He sat and listened for three hours at his patient’s side, examined him, and prescribed soup and rest. When Pascal was tired of staying in bed, Descartes claimed, ⑤ he would be nearly well. Their views remained in disagreement, but it was the supreme rationalist in his role as a thoughtful doctor whom Pascal would later remember. Later, Pascal wrote: ‘The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of’. 
Apocalypse Now, a film produced and directed by Francis Ford Coppola, gained widespread popularity, and for good reason. The film is an adaptation of Joseph Conrad’s novel Heart of Darkness, which is set in the African Congo at the end of the 19th century. Unlike the original novel, Apocalypse Now is set in Vietnam and Cambodia during the Vietnam War. The setting, time period, dialogue and other incidental details are changed but the fundamental narrative and themes of Apocalypse Now are the same as those of Heart of Darkness. Both describe a physical journey, reflecting the central character’s mental and spiritual journey, down a river to confront the deranged Kurtz character, who represents the worst aspects of civilisation. By giving Apocalypse Now a setting that was contemporary at the time of its release, audiences were able to experience and identify with its themes more easily than they would have if the film had been ________________ .
on the part of parents gives children a strong sense of worth, creating in them a feeling of being wanted. It communicates to children a powerful message about how important they are to their parents. The sense of worthiness generated in children by the feeling of ‘being wanted’ is known to be very vital for their psychological and all-round development. On the other hand, the “I do not matter to anybody” feeling generated by a sense of being unwanted as a result of regular and long absence on the part of parents has been known to have grave repercussions in terms of the child’s personality and emotional maturity.
Although child prodigies are often rich in both talent and ambition, what holds them back from moving the world forward is that they don’t learn to be ________________ . As they perform in Carnegie Hall, win the science Olympics, and become chess champions, something tragic happens: Practice makes perfect, but it doesn’t make new. The gifted learn to play magnificent Mozart melodies and beautiful Beethoven symphonies, but never compose their own scores. They focus their energy on consuming existing scientific knowledge, not producing new insights. They conform to the codified rules of established games, rather than inventing their own rules or their own games. All along the way, they strive to earn the approval of their parents and the admiration of their teachers.
Here’s a curious paradox. If perfection is a state beyond improvement, then isn’t every moment, by definition, perfect? After all, any given “now,” any given moment of reality is what it is in the sense that it cannot be anything other than what it is. Take this moment, right now: this moment is already here, and, as such, as theoretically imperfect as it may be, it is — at present — beyond any ________________ . While you could take the lessons of this moment and try to make the next moment better, this very moment is beyond improvement. It is too late to add anything to this moment to make it better. And if this moment, this slice of reality, is beyond improvement, then it’s the only way it can be (the best it can be —perfect).
Long, long before smart phones, a walking stick was our support staff when on the go. A good walking staff was the ultimate assistive device. If you misstepped, the staff helped you regain your balance. If you became tired, the staff was there to support you. The staff offered the benefit of a probe if you needed to explore an unfamiliar object along the way. It could be used as a gauge to test the depth of water if you had to ford a stream. If you needed to commit something to memory, you could notch the information down on the staff more or less with the same ease as we do it with the flash-drive memory sticks of today. And if necessary, a staff could be readily used as a weapon. All in all, the staff helped ________________ .
You may have heard or read that Laurence Olivier was widely believed to be the greatest actor of the past century. But when you see one of his films, you may wonder how that could be. This assessment comes largely from those who saw him perform live. He was an amazing and brilliant technician who took big risks and thrilled audiences far enough away not to be able to sense his technique. He rarely reached that impact on film where his work sometimes looks calculated. Richard Burton, also respected as one of the twentieth-century greats, had a voice so huge that it would sometimes overwhelm the camera, the microphone, and all the intimacy of film acting. To this day, many audience members and critics maintain that if you did not experience either of these men ________________ , you did not experience their magic.
A growing segment of humankind has come to see war as ________________ . For the first time in history, when governments, corporations and private individuals consider their immediate future, many of them don’t think about war as a likely event. Nuclear weapons have turned war between superpowers into a mad act of collective suicide, and therefore forced the most powerful nations on earth to find alternative and peaceful ways to resolve conflicts. Simultaneously, the global economy has been transformed from a material-based economy into a knowledge-based economy. Previously the main sources of wealth were material assets such as gold mines, wheat fields and oil wells. Today the main source of wealth is knowledge. And whereas you can conquer oil fields through war, you cannot acquire knowledge that way. Hence as knowledge became the most important economic resource, the profitability of war declined and wars became increasingly restricted to those parts of the world where the economies are still old-fashioned material-based economies.
Mathematical truth is a very slippery concept. This is not to say that it does not exist, but rather that we cannot be absolutely sure we have found it simply because we have ________________ . People make mistakes, particularly when checking a single lengthy argument repeatedly. Our knowledge of the truth of a mathematical statement depends upon making judgements based upon appropriate evidence. This evidence includes proofs of the type presented in text books, but may also involve numerical calculations, already solved special cases, geometrical pictures, consistency with one’s intuition about the field, parallels with other fields, wholly unexpected consequences which can be verified, etc. Mathematicians try to increase their knowledge, but this knowledge is based more upon the variety of independent sources of confirmation than upon logic.
What makes us so adaptable? In one word, culture — our ability to learn from others, to copy, imitate, share, and improve. When humans learned to communicate using oral and, later, written language, ideas, knowledge, and practices — how to make a fishhook, build a boat, fashion a spear, sing a song, carve a god — could replicate and combine like genes. But unlike genes, they could jump from one mind to another across distances of time and space. Culture freed humans from ________________ ; according to evolutionary biologist Mark Pagel, when humans discovered culture, they achieved a momentous shift in the balance of power “between our genes and our minds.” Humans became the only species to acquire guidance on how to live from the accumulated knowledge of their ancestors, rather than just from their DNA.
Mark Twain observed, “We are all ignorant, but about different things.” One mistake technical professionals make when writing for non-technical readers is assuming their readers are as knowledgeable as they are about the subject. This is a fatal assumption that will only result in confusion and frustration for your reader. Also, a great deal of your time will be spent generating additional messages to the reader trying to explain what should have been clear the first time. Just because it’s clear to you does not make it clear to your reader. If you are an engineer or accountant writing to others in your field, then perhaps there will be less need to explain all aspects of your message. If you’re writing to the senior vice president of marketing, who is not familiar with software applications, then you will need to “walk” that reader through your message. Remember that when it comes to technical knowledge, ________________ .
Spider-Man was a tremendous hit with readers because it gave millions of teenagers a hero ________________ . Jocks and cheerleaders didn’t read comics. The quiet, introspective students did, the same type of students as Peter Parker, the main character. Spider-Man was the first ongoing, reality-based superhero comic. Peter could swing over buildings, use his artificial webbing to catch a pair of bank robbers, then return a missing animal to the zoo as part of a day’s work. But in the evening, at home with his Aunt May, he was the one superhero who needed to sew the holes in his socks, take two aspirin for his headache, then watch the TV news to see if there were any reports about his exploits earlier in the day.
Although height and weight are similar in their simplicity, they are very different in ________________ . Our adult height is fixed — there is little one can do about it, and short people are not held responsible for their height as well as for their eye colors. Weight, however, is another matter. We are bombarded with the message that we can control our weight through will power, proper nutrition, and exercise. The diet industry (which includes diet programs, diet foods, and diet magazines and books) is enormous, with revenues of tens of billions of dollars, catering to an American public desperate to slim down. We shop at grocery stores filled with food that isn’t food and exercise at gyms packed with people walking furiously on treadmills that take them nowhere. Each morning we step onto the bathroom scale and measure our progress or lack thereof.
There are many authors who have been published for a long time but have not been able to increase their readership base. One of the main reasons is because they have become too formulaic. They stifle their ability to gain more readers by writing with the same tone and the same overall premise over and over again. They cannot connect to more readers unless they expand their own views and writing topics. That does not mean that they have to change their genre, but they certainly need to attempt to improve upon that genre with each and every book that they offer to the public. Even when you look at popular movie franchises or television shows, they run their courses after a while. No matter how successful a writer becomes, they ________________ . Don’t believe me? Take a good look at some of the top authors in the game and see how they have done that very thing.
Feedback is usually most effective when you offer it at the earliest opportunity, particularly if your objective is to teach someone a skill. (A) , if you are teaching your friend how to make your famous egg rolls, you provide a step-by-step commentary as you watch your pupil. If he makes a mistake, you don’t wait until the egg rolls are finished to tell him that he left out the cabbage. He needs immediate feedback to finish the rest of the sequence successfully. Sometimes, (B) , if a person is already sensitive and upset about something, delaying feedback can be wise. Use your critical thinking skills to analyze when feedback will do the most good. Rather than automatically offering immediate correction, use the just-in-time approach and provide feedback just before the person might make another mistake. 
Quota sampling is a technique whereby the researcher chooses a sample that reflects the make-up, in numerical terms, of the wider population. So, for example, if a researcher wanted to study gender differences in first-year undergraduate psychology students, and the wider population comprised a 60/40 per cent split females/males, then the sample must be comprised of this same ratio of females to males. (A) , in a sample population of, say, 100 participants, the sample would contain 60 females and 40 males. This quota system can also be used for other factors, such as age, ethnic background, etc. Like all techniques, quota sampling does have its drawbacks. (B) , it can be time-consuming and the researcher would still need to consider exactly how the subgroups that make up the sample are selected: e.g., what if those who are selected refuse to participate — how might this affect the representativeness of the sample? 
Most of the world’s great pilgrimage and tourist sites were established through the written media, well before the coming of film, and this limits the effect that film had on actually establishing the iconic status of such sites. (A) , this is not the case in countries such as Australia and New Zealand, where the majority of our tourist sites (including the ancient indigenous sites) are, in one way or another, products of the 20th century. In other words, they have developed in the age of film. (B) , the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Opera House, the Outback and High Country (as generic Australian bush heritage sites as well as relating to specific legends) and even Uluru have reached iconic status through the influence of film, still photographs, documentaries and even science fiction movies. New Zealand’s Maori culture and dramatic scenery (thermal in the North, glacial in the South) are achieving similar status through film. 
The amount of distance between the teacher and his/her students and perceived or actual barriers can have a significant impact on communication. Teachers who stay securely ensconced behind the ‘barricade’ of their desk automatically create a boundary that blocks effective interpersonal contact and gives a territorial feel to the room. The use of proximity, (A) , can be a powerful behaviour management tool. Firm reminders and warnings are best conducted privately and individually (it reduces embarrassment or threat to the student and minimises the spectator effect, both of which can fuel a challenge or counter-attack). Getting down to the student’s eye level (and not towering over him/her in a threatening way) models consideration and invites the student to respond in an equally respectful way. (B) , unless the classroom is organised in such a way as to allow the teacher to access individual students, this will be problematic and the teacher may resort to making public scolding. 
Before language develops, emotions and touch are the primary means by which parent and child communicate. (A) , it would not be surprising if preverbal infants had some basic understanding of other people’s emotional, nonverbal communications, which research has indicated is indeed the case. For example, infants as young as 14 months understand that emotions are often “about” a particular event (e.g., someone is scared of a dog) and are very adept at identifying what a person is emoting about. In addition, by 18 months, infants begin to appreciate that two people can have a different emotional response about the exact same object (e.g., you like peas, but I hate them). ________________ (B) , 14-month-old infants are still highly egocentric and assume that everyone has the same emotional responses to a particular object or event. 
 In the context of SNS, media literacy has been argued to be especially important “in order to make the users aware of their rights when using SNS tools, and also help them acquire or reinforce human rights values and develop the behaviour necessary to respect other people’s rights and freedoms”. ① With regard to peer-to-peer risks such as bullying, this last element is of particular importance. ② This relates to a basic principle that children are taught in the offline world as well: ‘do not do to others what you would not want others to do to you’. ③ Children’s SNS activities should be encouraged when we help them accumulate knowledge. ④ This should also be a golden rule with regard to SNS, but for children and young people it is much more difficult to estimate the consequences and potential serious impact of their actions in this environment. ⑤ Hence, raising awareness of children from a very early age about the particular characteristics of SNS and the potential long-term impact of a seemingly trivial act is crucial. 
In the colonial era and during the early years of the Republic, Americans did not drink much fresh milk. Although most of these early Americans were northern European by extraction, they consumed dairy products primarily in their preserved state. ① Milk was not an ideal beverage for New York City’s hot summer days. ② Without refrigeration, typical July city weather could sour a pitcher of milk within hours. ③ Therefore, while most city residents welcomed a cold, fresh glass of milk or a dish of ice cream on a hot day, such food experiences were rare, and sometimes deadly, luxuries. ④ Americans preferred to drink fresh milk because of the popular belief that doing so would improve their immune systems. ⑤ For example, the 1850 death of President Zachary Taylor is often attributed to a glass of milk drunk after a Fourth of July celebration, after he had dedicated the cornerstone of the Washington Monument. 
Myths remind us that our existence, and its meaning, are with, in, and through others. Our process of becoming cannot take place in isolation. ① Children receive an identity from their parents, yet strive to establish their own individuality. ② Myths speak to the power of love to transform both the lover and the beloved; this love gives meaning to life. ③ The hero cannot become a hero alone, and heroic myths include mentors, friends, lovers, allies, and, above all, enemies who define the hero. ④ The realities of growing older and the sense of brevity of our own lives often make us question the meaning of our existence. ⑤ Each of these relationships is necessary for the hero to take up his quest. 
Culture is one of the most complex words in the English language. Often people think that culture means the arts, sometimes termed high culture: opera, ballet, theater, sculpture. ① A“cultured” person, by this definition, is a highly educated person who is closely aware of these arts, who goes out to enjoy them often, who reads poetry, and perhaps buys paintings. ② For anthropologists and others, the concept of culture is much broader. ③ Culture is everything we do in our lives, from brushing our teeth with toothpaste to putting up a building, and from watching the Olympics on TV to taking part in a marriage ceremony. ④ Only by reading broadly can we hope to understand other cultures as well as others in our own culture. ⑤ Others may think of culture as encompassing characteristic qualities of a nation or people (as in American culture, Canadian culture, or Irish culture) or of an ethnic group (such as Native American culture, French-Canadian culture, or Gypsy culture). encompass 망라[포함]하다 
All movement incurs a cost of some sort, which is usually measured in terms of time or money. ① Some kinds of travel, such as that made by auto, bus, or train, incur both time and monetary costs; other trips, such as those made on foot, involve an expense primarily of time. ② In deciding which mode(s) to use on a given trip (e.g., car or bus), travelers often trade off time versus money costs, as the more costly travel modes are usually the faster ones. ③ A trade-off is also involved in the decision to make a trip: the traveler weighs the expected benefits to be gained at the destination against the expected costs of getting there. ④ Transportation is vital to urban life around the world; without it, the food and other goods that come from distant places and sustain life in cities would not appear in city markets. ⑤ Each trip represents a triumph of such anticipated benefits over costs, although for the many trips that are made out of habit this complicated weighing of costs and benefits does not occur before each and every trip. 
Ecosystems are dynamic in that their various parts are always changing. Plants grow, rain falls, animals eat, and soils develop. All of these actions and processes affect ecosystems. Because each component of an ecosystem interacts with other components of that system, action or change in one element often leads to action or change in others, which transforms the ecosystem. ① For example, a change in the ecosystem’s weather from sunshine to rain can benefit the soil, plants, and animals. ② Very heavy rains, however, could carry away soil and plant nutrients, hindering the growth of vegetation, thereby leaving a reduced food supply for the animals that depend on that vegetation. ③ The supply of large amounts of moisture to the remaining soil might preferentially benefit a few types of plants. ④ Typically, the spatial boundary between adjacent ecosystems is transitional, being crossed gradually over distance. ⑤ As those plants grow and thrive, the increased shade that they create could restrict the growth of other types of plants that would otherwise be competing for the remaining soil nutrients. 
There are convincing reasons to believe that education can increase wages for some, but there are even more convincing reasons to believe that education by itself will not end poverty. ① Education can do a lot of things, but it cannot resolve the persistent economic problem of extreme poverty felt by tens of millions of Americans. ② The long-standing, persistent myth that education alone can cure poverty is dangerous because it has caused schools to become overly focused on economic outcomes that will not be achieved without fundamental social and economic reforms. ③ One of the most influential myths presently affecting the American family is that students should be free from any forced exposure to the values of anyone. ④ And the focus on the economic outcomes of education has pushed the democratic, social-emotional, and intellectual aims of education to the side. ⑤ Sadly, if schools continue to be viewed as the principal path to end poverty, then genuinely beneficial educational, social, and economic reforms are unlikely to materialize and poverty in America will continue. 
Books may tell you how to finger the notes and count, but they can’t catch you when you make a mistake, coach you to get a good tone, or teach you to play musically. ① They can’t check your posture and hand position, or tell if you play out of tune. ② A book may help you with some basics, but a private teacher acts as a personal trainer who can collaborate with you to solve your problems and work with your own learning style. ③ Playing in a school band or orchestra is a great way to meet friends, practice teamwork, learn new music, support your school, and sometimes take exciting trips. ④ A book never tells you to go home and practice more, helps you with stage fright, or holds a recital. ⑤ Interactive DVDs and CDs are better than books because they give you a sound to imitate, but they still can never replace a real teacher. 
Food growers and producers who engage in sustainable agricultural practices balance the longterm environmental effects of their farming or ranching practices. ① They might protect groundwater and streams from livestock waste and agricultural chemicals, for example. ②They might use integrated pest management (IPM), which involves using a pest’s natural enemies, such as adult lady beetles and their larvae, because they feed on lice that kill plants, instead of chemical pesticides. ③ In some cases, the IPM strategy might be to simply harvest a crop before harmful insects can cause damage. ④ Some farmers believe that sustainable practices are the responsibility of the government and big corporations involved in agriculture. ⑤ Another sustainable practice is rotating crops — planting different crops in a field during growing seasons so that the same crop each year does not deplete the soil or get wiped out by pests. 
 Most consumer magazines depend on subscriptions and advertising. Subscriptions account for almost 90 percent of total magazine circulation. Single-copy, or newsstand, sales account for the rest. (A) For example, the Columbia Journalism Review is marketed toward professional journalists and its few advertisements are news organizations, book publishers, and others. A few magazines, like Consumer Reports, work toward objectivity and therefore contain no advertising. (B) However, single-copy sales are important: they bring in more revenue per magazine, because subscription prices are typically at least 50 percent less than the price of buying single issues. (C) Further, potential readers explore a new magazine by buying a single issue; all those insert cards with subscription offers are included in magazines to encourage you to subscribe. Some magazines are distributed only by subscription. Professional or trade magazines are specialized magazines and are often published by professional associations. They usually feature highly targeted advertising.
 Victor Borge, American comedian and pianist, always made a point of observing his audience closely. If any members of it responded poorly, he would try different lines of approach. One evening he found himself confronted by a table of six, all totally unsmiling. (A) They were Latin Americans and had not understood a word of what Borge had been saying. He played the piano, and the faces of the six lit up with smiles. (B) One man replied in English so heavily accented as to be almost unintelligible, “We come to hear you play piano. Please play piano.” (C) After fifteen minutes during which he failed, despite his best efforts, to elicit any response, Borge appealed to them in desperation to tell him why they were not enjoying the show.
Common experience tells us that an object that is moving at constant speed will eventually slow down and come to a stop unless there is something to keep it moving at constant speed. (A) The problem here is that there is a friction force between the wheels and the road, acting backwards, and it eventually acts to bring the bicycle to a stop if the cyclist stops pedaling. If the friction force could be reduced then the cyclist would not have to pedal so hard. (B) And if friction and air resistance could be eliminated completely, then the cyclist could coast along at constant speed, at least on a level surface, without having to pedal at all. (C) An example is a vehicle or a bicycle on a road. If the driver takes his or her foot off the accelerator, or if the cyclist stops pedaling, then the vehicle or the bicycle will slow down and come to a stop.
 Groups of Inuit, usually all related one way or another, would form a group or band and move together from place to place in search of food. These groups varied in size from a few dozen to a few hundred. (A) These sleds were often coated with moss or ice to help them slide easily across the snow. Some sleds were short, measuring only a few feet long and pulled by several dogs. Others were much longer, and pulled through the snow by a dozen hardy dogs. (B) The men in these groups spent almost every single day searching for enough food to keep their people alive. They never hunted for land animals and sea creatures on the same trip, as they believed that would anger the spirits. (C) When hunting on land, the men would climb on wooden dogsleds, known as qamutiks. These were pulled by their faithful, hardworking team of huskies or qimmiq.
 ‘Economics of Happiness’ is a label often used to refer to a recent approach to assessing welfare which combines the techniques typically used by economists with those more commonly used by psychologists. (A) Therefore, this economic branch does not concentrate on ‘what happiness is’; rather, it takes a pragmatic stance on the content of ‘happiness’ by focusing on very simple measures, so that many data on the same question can be obtained. (B) By ‘happiness’ is meant something rather peculiar, that is, the subjective state of mind of well-being that people are asked to self-report according to the qualitative or numerical scale proposed in the survey question. (C) This abundance of information can be usefully exploited by econometric techniques in order to study the determinants of happiness, although causation is difficult to prove.
 The Australian actor Frederick Mathias Alexander created the Alexander technique at the turn of the century. He had chronic voice problems and went in search of a solution to save his voice and career. (A) He believed that by correcting negative postural and attitudinal patterns he could influence his health concerns. Because of the importance of correct posture in healing from injuries, the Alexander technique is an excellent choice of therapy. (B) He frequently lost his voice while on stage and regained it later while resting. In an effort to discover why, he studied his body in the mirror, watching his posture during movements very closely. (C) When he mimicked his acting roles he frequently noticed how the position of his head shifted, placing increasing levels of stress on his neck and his breathing. He could feel how his throat tightened and made attempts to correct the position of his head and body while he delivered his lines.
 By 18 months, remarkable emotional competence emerges in toddlers. They begin to exhibit what scholars call “self-conscious emotions,” emotions associated with awareness of a “self” that is judged by others (e.g., guilt, shame, and embarrassment). (A) By 18 months, children are also beginning to develop the ability to feel empathy for the emotional states of others. This level of development is evident when a 2-year-old offers a hug to another child who is crying, as if to say, “I feel better when mom hugs me so I will hug you.” (B) However, by about 18 months, the toddlers became upset when looking at themselves in the mirror. Although they didn’t know the word, they were experiencing embarrassment. (C) For example, in one experiment, researchers asked mothers to place rouge on the nose of their toddlers and place them in front of a mirror. Toddlers younger than 18 months seemed to have no emotional response.
 Many people out there think that they’ve got the answer, that their approach is the best, that they have the truth. You’ve met some of them, yes? They can’t all be 100 percent right, of course, because they’d contradict each other. (A) And the more perspectives you take into account, the better you can understand something, whether it be yourself, a relationship with another person, or a situation in the world. (B) In contrast, the fewer perspectives you consider, the more susceptible you are to fallacies or misconceptions resulting from a limited view. A fallacy occurs when someone reduces what they understand to be “reality” by ignoring important perspectives, thereby arriving at misleading conclusions. (C) Yet the opposite doesn’t make sense either: they can’t all be 100 percent wrong all the time! Instead, everyone comes from a perspective, or point of view, which, by its very nature, is limited and partial.
 Honoring heroes is best done with love. It is essential that they and their deeds be taken at face value. For only in doing that can we really appreciate, for better or worse, what has transpired. (A) The function of memories is not only to let go of the past but also to lay the groundwork for whatever comes next. It is the front edge of a learning process that can take us from where we were toward whatever we might become. (B) But dealing with heroes only at the level of acceptance is not sufficient, for then we never ask what could have been done. What are the possible implications of their contributions? (C) And the driving engine of that process is critical judgment. Love maintains the democratic, self-managing meetings in which heroes can be seen for what they were, and learned from, as a guide to possible futures.
 Experiments show that rats display an immediate liking for salt the first time they experience a salt deficiency. Both humans and rats have evolved taste preferences for sweet foods, which provide rich sources of calories. A study of food preferences among the Hadza hunter-gatherers of Tanzania found that honey was the most highly preferred food item, an item that has the highest caloric value. ( ① ) Human newborn infants also show a strong preference for sweet liquids. ( ② ) Both humans and rats dislike bitter and sour foods, which tend to contain toxins. ( ③ ) They also adaptively adjust their eating behavior in response to deficits in water, calories, and salt. ( ④ ) They likewise increase their intake of sweets and water when their energy and fluids become depleted. ( ⑤ ) These appear to be specific evolved mechanisms, designed to deal with the adaptive problem of food selection, and coordinate consumption patterns with physical needs. 
 When the purchasing power of money fluctuates wildly, previously determined prices do not represent their intended values. One of the most important productive functions of government is providing a stable monetary and financial environment. ( ① ) If markets are going to work well, individuals have to know the value of what they are buying or selling. ( ② ) For market prices to convey this information, a stable monetary system is needed. ( ③ ) This is especially true for the many market exchanges that involve a time dimension. ( ④ ) Houses, cars, consumer durables, land, buildings, equipment, and many other items are often paid for over a period of months or even years. ( ⑤ ) Under these circumstances, exchanges involving long-term commitments are hampered, and the smooth operation of markets is undermined. 
 However, as humans migrated into more temperate regions tens of thousands of years ago, too much melanin became harmful. Often, genetic differences are related to the environment in which a people or their ancestors lived. Consider skin color. ( ① ) When exposed to sunlight, human skin manufactures vitamin D, a necessary nutrient. ( ② ) The melanin existing in human skin produces the color our eyes perceive as dark. ( ③ ) High levels of melanin protect darker skin against sun damage, so melanin usually is beneficial in tropical environments, where sunlight is most intense. ( ④ ) In high latitudes, melanin reduces the penetration of sunlight in the skin, reducing its ability to make vitamin D. ( ⑤ ) Thus, dark pigmentation is harmful in high latitudes like Europe and Siberia, and over many centuries skin grew lighter (“whiter”) in such regions. 
 However, it is still important to understand basic cartographic principles to make a good map. Today, the vast majority of mapmakers employ computer technologies. For most mapping projects, computer systems are faster, more efficient, and less expensive than the hand-drawn cartographic techniques they have replaced. Spatial data representing elevations, depths, temperatures, or populations can be stored in a digital database, accessed, and displayed on a map. ( ① ) The database for a map can include information on coastlines, political boundaries, city locations, river systems, map projections, and coordinate systems. ( ② ) In digital form, maps can be easily revised because they do not have to be manually redrawn with each revision or major change. ( ③ ) Computer-generated map revision is essential for updating rapidly changing phenomena such as weather systems, air pollution, ocean currents, volcanic eruptions, and forest fires. ( ④ ) Digital maps can be instantly distributed and shared via the Internet. ( ⑤ ) A computer mapping system will draw only what an operator instructs it to draw. 
 This may have triggered the process of domestication of certain plants and animals. The last ice age came to an end about 13,000 years ago and with that warmer, wetter conditions prevailed. As a result, conditions were favourable for the growth of grasses such as wild barley and wheat. ( ① ) At the same time, as open forests and grasslands expanded, the population of certain animal species such as wild sheep, goats, cattle, pigs and donkeys increased. ( ② ) What we find is that human societies began to gradually prefer areas that had an abundance of wild grasses and animals. ( ③ ) Now relatively large, permanent communities occupied such areas for most parts of the year. ( ④ ) With some areas being clearly preferred, a pressure may have built up to increase the food supply. ( ⑤ ) It is likely that a combination of factors which included climatic change, population pressure, a greater reliance on and knowledge of a few species of plants (such as wheat, barley and rice) and animals (such as sheep, cattle and pigs) played a role in this transformation. 
 Much of what was measured as unemployment, they said, was actually individuals who were working at home and not earning money in the marketplace. Comparison of the characteristics of different societies involves problems. At times, it is difficult to decide whether two or more societies are independent or should be treated as one. Or, consider definitions: If we are comparing the family institution in different societies, we must define family broadly enough to cover cultural variations yet specifically enough to make comparisons meaningful. ( ① ) Sociologists do not always agree on just what a family is. ( ② ) Again, if we are comparing unemployment in urban-industrial societies, we must agree on what we mean by unemployment. ( ③ ) For example, in the early 1980s, the unemployment rate in Mexico, computed by U.S. standards, was approximately 30 per cent. ( ④ ) Mexican economists, however, argued that this figure was meaningless because Mexican work habits and culture were different from those in the United States. ( ⑤ ) Thus, although they had nonmarket jobs, they had still been counted as unemployed. 
 When the public hears stories like these, reactions are varied. Each year about 50,000 species of plants and animals disappear from the planet as a result of human activity. ( ① ) Conservationists and environmental activists have been trying to elevate the priority given to the protection of the environment and its inhabitants for many years, but the public, politicians, and criminologists have largely ignored their efforts. ( ② ) Various media outlets report stories of people tying themselves to trees in order to save spotted owls, or of large-scale construction projects that are halted because an endangered frog’s habitat might be in jeopardy. ( ③ ) Some see these actions as moral victories while others see them as simply absurd. ( ④ ) As more prominent public figures become active in the fight against crimes involving nature, the problem of illegally trading endangered species will gain prominence in society. ( ⑤ ) As an example, the awarding of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize to former U.S. Vice President Al Gore and the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reminded people that environmental causes are noteworthy. 
 Ironically, most people abandon the quest even when they are on the right road to the right goal with the right spirit. Permission to fail is really permission to excel, but few people learn this early enough to make a difference in their lives or careers. ( ① ) Those who take pride in having made few mistakes usually work for someone who has made many and expects to make more. ( ② ) The skier who never falls down has not challenged himself or herself enough to master the techniques of navigating double black-diamond runs. ( ③ ) In all endeavors, failure is the price paid for learning how to succeed. ( ④ ) They merely fail to persevere in the face of adversity. ( ⑤ ) Thomas Edison, an icon who parlayed a life of failures into blockbusting successes, once observed, “Many of life’s failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.” 
 There typically are more suspended particles in coastal waters than in offshore waters. In relatively shallow coastal areas, sea water often appears to have more of a green, yellow, or even red hue. ( ① ) This is due to the relatively high quantities of suspended and floating material in these waters. ( ② ) Such materials restrict the penetration of light, and therefore more of the light is reflected from the upper layers of the water, where the longer red, yellow, and green wavelengths predominate. ( ③ ) This is because coastal waters contain material carried in by rivers, sediment stirred up from the bottom by waves and currents, and a relatively high amount of plant and animal growth. ( ④ ) Some coastal waters and rivers can have such a high concentration of suspended sediment and floating plant material that light only penetrates the surface a foot or so. ( ⑤ ) In this case, the water may appear brown, red, or even black. 
Time spent on on-line interaction with members of one’s own, preselected community leaves less time available for actual encounters with a wide variety of people. If physicists, for example, were to concentrate on exchanging email and electronic preprints with other physicists around the world working in the same specialized subject area, they would likely devote less time, and be less receptive to new ways of looking at the world. Facilitating the voluntary construction of highly homogeneous social networks of scientific communication therefore allows individuals to filter the potentially overwhelming flow of information. But the result may be the tendency to overfilter it, thus eliminating the diversity of the knowledge circulating and diminishing the frequency of radically new ideas. In this regard, even a journey through the stacks of a real library can be more fruitful than a trip through today’s distributed virtual archives, because it seems difficult to use the available “search engines” to emulate efficiently the mixture of predictable and surprising discoveries that typically result from a physical shelf-search of an extensive library collection. ⇩ Focusing on on-line interaction with people who are engaged in the same specialized area can ________________ (A) potential sources of information and thus make it less probable for (B) findings to happen. 
No one has been more wrong about computerization than George Orwell in 1984, a novel about government control of the lives of individuals by a Big Brother brain. So far, nearly everything about the actual possibility-space that computers have created indicates they are not the beginning of authority but its end. In the process of connecting everything to everything, computers elevate the power of the small player, encouraging freedom and democratic practices. They make room for the different, and they reward small innovations. Instead of enforcing uniformity, they promote heterogeneity and autonomy. Instead of sucking the soul from human bodies, turning computer users into an army of dull clones, networked computers — by reflecting the networked nature of our own brains — encourage the humanism of their users. Because they have taken on the flexibility, adaptability, and self-connecting governance of organic systems, we become more human, not less so, when we use them. ⇩ It cannot hold true that networked computers help to (A) centralized control over individuals’ lives; on the contrary, they serve as a (B) medium, enabling their users to be more human. 
In spite of the remarkable variety of interests and personalities represented in classrooms, the daily activities are generally carried out without mishap. Some students claim to be taking a course in social psychology because of a theoretical interest in the subject matter; some, because a professor advised them to take it; and some, because it happens to come at a convenient hour. In spite of this diversity of intention, the enterprise goes on, for all of the participants share certain minimal understandings. There are common assumptions regarding the time and place of the meetings, the appropriate dress for these occasions, and the division of labor in which the professor has primary responsibility. It is generally understood that professors are likely to be upset if people are consistently late, argue too fiercely with them, or appear disrespectful; hence, most students make some effort to arrive on time and to suppress their tendencies toward aggression or falling asleep. Such common understandings may be referred to as group norms. ⇩ Daily classroom tasks are, despite students’ (A) interests and characteristics, carried out with relative smoothness since they are performed with (B) efforts under the common understanding. 
Existing travel information systems, such as electronic signage on motorways, are designed to consider travellers as crowds, lacking any form of personalised information format and delivery. Moreover, most advanced traffic management systems rely on a centrally controlled infrastructure and information source. These two characteristics hinder the development of trust and credibility of the particular systems. Indeed, a travel information system that more often than not delivers information unrelated to someone’s journey, gradually becomes ‘noise’ in the travellers’ environment. According to experts in transportation research, the reaction of drivers to electronic signage messages decreases over time, showing a potential distrust of the displayed messages. An information system that relies on a single source of information is at risk of becoming untrustworthy. Incidents where wrong or inaccurate information is delivered by the single information source, would damage trust levels on the system as a whole. ⇩ Current travel information systems (A) drivers’ trust when the traffic information they provide is in an excessively (B) format or is based on a single source. 
However, sometimes they are mistaken in a rather special way. We often hit the nail on the head when it comes to predicting the type of impact an event will have on us and the intensity of that impact. For example, we may correctly predict that winning a lottery would thrill us more than locating a long lost sock, or that the loss of a limb would horrify us more than a run in our nylons. Where we err, however, is in estimating the duration of the positive or negative feelings that such events evoke. Research shows, for example, that the thrill of winning the lottery, and the horror of acquiring a physical handicap, both diminish more quickly than expected. Indeed, after only a few months, people who have experienced either one or the other are barely distinguishable in terms of their overall happiness. ⇩ (A) to our intuitive expectations, the emotional impact that an event has on us fades in a few months, after which experiencers of emotions, good or bad, are hard to (B) in relation to their overall happiness. 
In one sense, every character you create will be yourself. You’ve never murdered, but your murderer’s rage will be drawn from memories of your own extreme anger. Your love scenes will contain hints of your own past kisses and sweet moments. That scene in which your octogenarian feels humiliated will draw on your experience of humiliation in the eighth grade, even though the circumstances are totally different and you’re not even consciously thinking about your middle- school years. Our characters’ emotions, after all, draw on our own emotions. Sometimes, however, you will want to use your life more directly in your fiction, dramatizing actual incidents. Charles Dickens used his desperate experience as a child laborer in Victorian England to write David Copperfield. Should you create a protagonist based directly on yourself? The problem with this — and it is a very large problem — is that almost no one can view himself ________________ on the page. As the writer, you’re too close to your own complicated makeup. It can thus be easier and more effective to use a situation or incident from your life but make it happen to a character who is not you. In fact, that’s what authors largely have done. You can still, of course, incorporate aspects of yourself: your love of Beethoven, your quick temper, your soccer injuries. But by applying your own experience to a different protagonist, you can take advantage of your insider knowledge of the situation, and yet gain an objectivity and control that the original intense situation, by definition, did not have. 
Trish and Andrea enjoyed a good relationship as business partners until Andrea began to feel victimized by the amount of time she needed to devote to a project. Overwhelmed by the prospect of what lay ahead, she sent Trish an e-mail demanding a larger share of the profits. Trish was shocked and hurt by the message and by the impersonal way it was delivered. Rather than let herself become overwhelmed by hurt and disappointment, she reminded herself that she and Andrea were friends and that she didn’t understand what was so troubling. Trish made an appointment to discuss the matter leisurely with Andrea in a comfortable setting that favored communication. When the two met, Trish was relaxed and genuinely interested in knowing why Andrea felt resentful when she hadn’t in the past. Face to face, with Trish showing genuine interest and regard, Andrea relaxed and was able to tell Trish that their project had become ________________ . Andrea felt reassured by Trish’s support and their interaction as they discussed possible solutions that would enable Andrea to continue working on the project. The discussion ended with each feeling greater excitement about working together and more appreciation for one another. 
In children’s play, objects may support the imaginative process as ‘transitional objects’; these no longer have the meaning they have in the real world, but are used to represent a missing object. For example, children may use stones to represent money while playing shop. The stones act as a prop to help them engage in the imaginative process. Initially, transitional objects need to share many characteristics with the object being imagined, but, with practice, the need for physical ________________ (A) decreases. Eventually, children no longer require an actual object to support their imaginative play, but can pretend the object is there. As adults, we likewise suspend disbelief and enter the rules of imaginative play when watching theatre, accepting whatever mimed or symbolic use of a prop is suggested by the actors. When older children (B) instinctive acceptance of imagined objects in play, teachers can reaffirm the symbolic and representative role of objects through the practice of imaginative exploration in drama: a cardboard circle, presented convincingly, can symbolise a precious crown. Once children can separate objects and actions from their meaning in the real world, and give them new meanings, they are no longer tied to the concrete world and start to think in an abstract way: beyond the moment and into possibilities. 
North American football and ice hockey are among the most violent of team sports. Players are frequently penalized for “unnecessary roughness” and other aggressive behaviors. Some professional teams in each sport wear black uniforms, or at least uniforms that look black in the vast distances of the stadium. The Los Angeles Raiders in the National Football League (NFL) and the Philadelphia Flyers of the National Hockey League (NHL) are examples. Hence, do the black-uniformed teams seem meaner? The answer is yes. For instance, investigators found that between 1970 and 1986, the Raiders led the NFL in the number of yards penalized. In contrast, over the same period the brightly colored Miami Dolphins suffered the fewest penalty yards. ________________ , in the NHL between 1970 and 1986, the Philadelphia Flyers exceeded all other teams in the number of minutes they were penalized. Judging from a simulation study the researchers conducted, part of such unsportsmanlike behavior may be in the eye of the beholder. The same action looks different according to whether the actor is in black or in white. But a portion of this difference is also the result of the athletes’ rising (or lowering) to the occasion. There is something about being dressed in black that inspires a little extra meanness in a soul that is already pretty fierce. In line with this are the histories of two professional hockey teams, the Vancouver Canucks and the Pittsburgh Penguins, that switched from nonblack to black uniforms. The altered appearance became reflected in the penalty minutes the two teams chalked up! 
My school has implemented a “character trait of the month” activity. Teachers are to look for students who model a particular positive character trait. At the end of the month, students who have been nominated are called out of their classes. They are honored, and their picture is then displayed in a cabinet near the front office. During the “respect” month, I nominated a boy in my class whom I’ll call Tommy. Tommy is autistic; he is easily angered and often isolates himself from the rest of the class. He rarely speaks to anyone. One day my class was working on volleyball drills. During the drill, one student throws the ball to each of the other students, who stand side by side in a line in front of the student throwing. One girl was having difficulty tossing the ball accurately. Some of her teammates began laughing at her. Tommy immediately came to her defense and said, “Leave her alone; no one is perfect.” I was amazed that he not only spoke out but was perceptive enough to be aware of ________________ . That’s why I nominated Tommy for the “respect” award. Two weeks later, Tommy came up to me and said, “You nominated me for an award.” He had a trace of a smile on his face. It was the first conversation we’d had in which he wasn’t telling me something negative about someone else in the class. Since then we’ve had several more conversations, and he has shared personal stories about his family life with me. 
(A) It was the first day of the new semester. Steve and Dave were excited that they would be back at school again. They rode their bicycles to school together that morning, as they usually did. Dave had math on the first floor, and Steve was on the second with history. On his way to the classroom, Steve’s teacher came up to him to ask if (a) he wanted to run for student president. Steve thought for a moment and answered, “Sure, it’ll be a great experience.” (B) Steve won the election. Upon hearing the result, Dave went over to Steve and congratulated (b) him, shaking his hand. Steve could still see the disappointment burning in his eyes. It wasn’t until later that evening, on the way home, that Dave said apologetically, “I’m so sorry, Steve! This election hasn’t damaged our friendship, has it?” “Of course not, Dave. We’re friends as always!” Steve responded with a smile. As Steve arrived home, his dad was proudly waiting for him and said, “Congratulations on the win! How did Dave take it?” Steve replied, “We’re fine now, best friends for life!” (c) His dad laughed, “Sounds like you won two battles today!” (C) After class, Steve spotted Dave in the hallway and ran to him excitedly, “I’ve got good news! I’m going for student president and I think mine will be the only nomination.” Dave cleared his throat and replied with surprise, “Actually, I’ve just registered my name, too!” (d) He continued sharply, “Well, best of luck! But don’t think you’ll win the election, Steve.” Dave walked quickly away and from that moment on, there was an uncomfortable air of tension between the two friends. Steve tried to be friendly toward Dave, but he just didn’t seem to care. (D) When the election day came, Steve found that his bicycle had a flat tire, so he started to run to school. Just as he reached the end of the street, Dave’s dad, who was driving Dave to school, pulled over to give him a ride. The dead silence in the car made the drive painful. Noticing the bad atmosphere, Dave’s dad said, “You know, only one of you can win. You have known each other since birth. Don’t let this election ruin your friendship. Try to be happy for each other!” His words hit Dave hard. Looking at Steve, Dave felt the need to apologize to (e) him later that day. 
(A) Dean Woodcock of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is the superintendent of a department of the local electric company. His staff was called upon to repair some equipment on top of a pole. This type of work had formerly been performed by a different department and had only recently been transferred to Woodcock’s section. Although (a) his people had been trained in the work, this was the first time they had ever actually been called upon to do it. (B) “It does look like it, doesn’t it? I’d think the same thing in your position. But this is a unique situation...” Dean Woodcock went on to explain how this was the first job of this type for (b) his department and how everybody from executives down was interested. He assured the man that under normal conditions two people could handle the job. The photographer put away his camera, shook Woodcock’s hand, and thanked (c) him for taking the time to explain the situation to him. Dean Woodcock’s friendly approach saved his company much embarrassment and bad publicity. (C) Everybody in the organization was interested in seeing if and how they could handle it. Mr. Woodcock, several of his subordinate managers, and members of other departments of the utility went to see the operation. Many cars and trucks were there, and a number of people were standing around watching the two lone men on top of the pole. Glancing around, Woodcock noticed a man up the street getting out of his car with a camera. (d) He began taking pictures of the scene. (D) Utility people are extremely conscious of public relations, and suddenly Woodcock realized what this setup looked like to the man with the camera — overkill, dozens of people being called out to do a two-person job. (e) He strolled up the street to the photographer, saying, “I see you’re interested in our operation.” Looking directly at him, the photographer said, “Yes, and my mother will be more than interested. She owns stock in your company.” He continued, “This will be an eye-opener for her. She may even decide her investment was unwise. I’ve been telling her for years there’s a lot of waste motion in companies like yours. This proves it. The newspapers might like these pictures, too.” 
(A) One Saturday afternoon, my son Steve and I were watching graceful seagulls calling each other when Steve noticed something was not right with one of the seagulls. It had a long, matted string tightly wrapped around its webbed feet. Perhaps some fisherman had cut the twisted line from his fishing pole and thoughtlessly discarded it on the rocks where the gulls search for food. Now, that line would mean a slow death for one unfortunate feathered creature. (B) I could read the disappointment in my young son’s eyes. “Find me a branch as tall and straight as you are,” I told Steve, “we’ll catch (a) him.” He came back with a willow limb, about five feet long. We trimmed the limb with my pocketknife. I placed the stick straight out in front of me, flat on the grass. Steve and I crouched low, and stayed very still. Now (b) he threw out pieces of the bun just beyond the end of the stick. Cautiously, the trusting gull crash-landed. (C) Hop-flying, he inched ever closer as (c) he gobbled up our bait. When his position was just right, I raised the stick slightly. Then, quickly and firmly, I placed it down on the grass, right between his tangled legs. He was pinned to the ground. Steve used the pocketknife to cut away the entangled fishing line. A few minutes later, our feathered friend was free. As we backed away, (d) he stood up, not knowing what to do next. Moments later he was airborne with the other gulls. What a happy moment that experience was in our life! (D) Had I been alone, I would have walked away feeling sad for that poor gull. But seven-year-old Steve insisted that even the lowliest creature deserves our assistance if it is in trouble. How could I argue with this point of view? We had some hamburger buns with us. Steve tried feeding the starving gull, tossing torn bits of the buns toward the bird, luring (e) him closer and closer. Each time Steve got close, he lunged for the fishing line, only to have the gull fly for several yards out of his reach. 
Once there lived an old man unknown to most of us. He was a neighbour of Mr. Stone, and he was very nosy. Long retired, he had no hobbies of his own and very little company to keep (a) him occupied. As a result, he spent the majority of his days involved in the business of others, even if only from behind drawn blinds most of the time. The few acquaintances the old man did have had gotten used to his stories. He was suspicious, always coming to conclusions, judging, and generally assuming the worst of everyone. After a series of missing items in the neighbourhood began to get the community up in arms, he was unable to keep his distrust of Mr. Stone to himself. (b) His talk worked its way through the many different veins of the small neighbourhood, gathering momentum until it had reached a pitch strong enough to end up arresting his neighbour on the suspicion of theft. Proven innocent within a matter of days, Mr. Stone sued the old man for falsely accusing (c) him of theft. Standing before the judge, the elderly gossiper proclaimed, “They were only comments! They didn’t hurt anyone!” Before passing sentence the judge asked him to write down everything he had said. Doing so, (d) he was then ordered to cut them up and scatter them on his way home. “Come back to hear your sentence tomorrow,” the judge told him. The next day, standing in the courtroom, the judge stared the old man in the face and said, “Alright, before we proceed with the sentencing I’m going to request that you leave the building and gather each piece of paper that you cut up and threw away yesterday. Once you’ve returned with them, we will continue.” Then (e) he proclaimed, “What? That’s impossible! The wind has taken them all! There’s no way I could ever get each of them back!” The judge smiled and replied, “In the same way, loose talk has the ability to destroy a man’s reputation beyond all repair. If you were a master of your mouth, you would not be a slave to your words, and thus, you would not be standing before me, here, today.” 
(A) When he was nine years old, John went to his first basketball game. He can still see it in his head. He stood with his buddies in the balcony of the gym. The thing that (a) he remembers most wasn’t the game; it was the announcement of the starting lineups. They turned all the lights out, and then some spotlights came on. The announcer called out the names of the starters, and they ran out to the middle of the floor one by one with everybody in the place cheering. (B) When they got there, instead of going out onto the floor with the rest of the players as they were warming up, John went over to the bench where those sixth-grade players had been two years before. (b) He sat right where they had, and he closed his eyes. Then in his head he heard his name announced, and he ran out in the middle of the floor. It felt so good to hear that imaginary applause that he thought, I’ll do it again! So (c) he did. In fact, he did it three times, and all of a sudden he realized that his buddies weren’t playing basketball; they were just watching him in disbelief. But he didn’t even care because he was one step closer to being the person he’d dreamed about becoming. (C) John went home that night and told his father, “I want to be a basketball player.” Soon afterward, (d) he got him a Spalding basketball, and they put a goal on the garage. John would get out of bed early and shovel snow off that driveway to practice his free throws and play basketball, because he had a dream of becoming somebody. And when in sixth grade, John’s team got to go to the Old Mill Street Gym in Circleville, Ohio, where he’d seen that basketball game in the fourth grade. (D) John hung over the balcony that day as a fourth-grade kid and said, “Wow, I’d like that to happen to me.” In fact, by the time the introductions were over, (e) he looked at his friend Bobby Wilson, and he said, “Bobby, when I get to six grade, they’re going to announce my name, and I’m going to run out in the spotlight to the middle of that basketball floor. And the people are going to cheer for me because I’m going to become somebody.” 
Born into a working-class family in 1872, Albert C. Barnes grew up in Philadelphia. He became interested in art when he became friends with future artist William Glackens in high school. He earned a medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania and qualified as a doctor in 1892. Barnes decided not to work as a doctor, and after further study he entered the business world. In 1901, he invented the antiseptic Argyrol with a German chemist and made a fortune. Using his wealth, he began purchasing hundreds of paintings. In 1922, he established the Barnes Foundation to promote the education of fine arts. There he displayed his huge collection without detailed explanation. He died in a car accident in 1951.
Mel Blanc, considered by many industry experts to be the inventor of cartoon voice acting, began his career in 1927 as a voice actor for a local radio show. The producers did not have the funds to hire many actors, so Mel Blanc resorted to creating different voices and personas for the show as needed. He became a regular on The Jack Benny Program, where he provided voices for many characters — human, animal, and nonliving objects such as a car in need of a tune-up. The distinctive voice he created for Porky Pig fueled his breakout success at Warner Bros. Soon Blanc was closely associated with many of the studio’s biggest cartoon stars as well as characters from Hanna-Barbera Studios. His longest running voice-over was for the character Daffy Duck — about 52 years. Blanc was extremely protective of his work — screen credits reading “Voice Characterization by Mel Blanc” were always under the terms of his contracts.
About twenty years ago, Ray Anderson, the late CEO of the ① immensely successful carpet manufacturer, Interface, had what he described as an epiphany. Here he was, with more money ② than he or his heirs would know what to do with, when he realized that his company was poisoning the environment. Carpet making is (or was) a petroleum-intensive industry and Interface’s environmental footprint was huge. Anderson wondered what good it would do ③ to leave his grandchildren great wealth if the price of accumulating that wealth was an uninhabitable planet. So Anderson resolved to transform every aspect of Interface’s operations, ④ moving to achieve a zero footprint goal by 2020. He assumed ⑤ what the development of new production processes and a commitment to pollution control would cost money — a lot of it. But he was willing to sacrifice the bottom line to achieve a social good. 
From childhood Blake had seen visions. One of the earliest stories recounted of him was that ① he told his parents he had seen a tree full of angels. This angered his father, who thought the boy was willfully telling lies. In later years Blake habitually talked about the supernatural subjects of ② his pictures as being actually present in his studio when he was drawing them. A visitor once surprised him hard at work on a picture of an invisible sitter. ③ He looked and drew, drew and looked, apparently intent on capturing a likeness. “Do not disturb me, I have one sitting to me,” ④ he said. “But there’s no one here,” exclaimed the visitor. “But I see him, sir,” replied Blake haughtily. “There he is —his name is Lot —you may read of him in the Scriptures. ⑤ He is sitting for his portrait.” 
When considered in terms of evolutionary success, many of the seemingly irrational choices that people make do not seem so foolish after all. Most animals, including our ancestors and modern-day capuchin monkeys, lived very close to the margin of survival. Paleontologists who study early human civilizations have uncovered evidence that our ancestors faced frequent periods of drought and freezing. When you are living on the verge of starvation, a slight downturn in your food reserves makes a lot more difference than a slight upturn. Anthropologists who study people still living in hunter-gatherer societies have discovered that they regularly make choices designed to produce not the best opportunity for obtaining a hyperabundant supply of food but, instead, the least danger of ending up with an insufficient supply. In other words, people everywhere have a strong motivation to avoid falling below the level that will feed themselves and their families. If our ancestors hadn’t agonized over losses and instead had taken too many chances in going after the big gains, they’d have been more likely to lose out and never become anyone’s ancestor. ⇩ Our ancestors gave priority to (A) minimum resources rather than pursuing maximum gains, and that was the rational choice for human (B) from an evolutionary perspective. 
 But in U.S. history, teachers still feel a compulsion to teach 4,444 twigs rather than a much smaller number of trees and only a handful of forests. World history teachers already grasp the fact that they could not hope to cover the history of the world without picking and choosing. ( ① ) Otherwise, they would have to devote perhaps 13 minutes to the history of Malaysia, 7 to Singapore, and 28 to Thailand — impossible! ( ② ) Sometimes they feel compelled to do so by statewide “standardized” twig tests. ( ③ ) Unfortunately, the more teachers cover, the less kids remember. ( ④ ) Fragmenting history into unconnected “facts” practically guarantees that students will not be able to relate many of these terms to their own lives. ( ⑤ ) As a professor who specializes in teaching first-year courses, I can guarantee that by the time they enter college, most students who were taught U.S. history the usual way have forgotten everything — except that World War I preceded World War II. 
 In Sufi folklore, the tales of Nasrudin are fables that teach life lessons through the art of storytelling. One of our favorites is the story of Nasrudin at the bathing house. (A) The next time he arrived, the workers warned one another about him, and they flipped a coin to see who would have to serve the miser. Although he was cordial and polite, they were short and curt with him, anxious to see him leave as soon as possible. (B) Nasrudin went to a local bathing house dressed in very expensive garments, carrying a goldlined pouch at his side. He was treated like royalty, and at the end of his visit, he surprised the attendants by giving them just one small copper coin for a tip. (C) After a leisurely stay, he cordially thanked the attendants and handed them a large golden coin. “This, my friends,” he said, “is for the service you gave me last time. I believe that I paid you for today’s service last time!”
Historically, cities were designed and developed in accordance with the representations of gods and kings as the sources of spiritual and temporal power. Major landmarks, nodes and axes were developed to enhance the position of these sources of power in the daily life of the citizens. As the modern democratic societies emerged, (A) , the source of power shifted to a wider base, and now the city needed to be designed for people. Rather than gods or kings, it was now the people who were the source of inspiration and legitimation for city design. The reference to people first only included the elite; but under democratic pressure it was gradually opened up to include larger sections of society. The geometric design of the ancient or Renaissance and baroque cities, (B) , was challenged as being too rigid, merely addressing a world order that no longer could hold. 
The first person who followed a morality based on reason was Socrates. Socrates said that ‘No man is voluntarily wicked’, that one is wicked through ignorance of the good, that furthermore, the good is neither pleasure nor power and that one cannot be master of anything, whatever it is, unless one ________________ . He used to say that the good is to keep one’s soul free from all impurity, from all attacks of passion. Evil is always a weakness, and virtue is always strength, even if things appear to be quite the opposite (a tyrant, and men tortured by a tyrant). A tyrant is, although he does not know it, weaker than the person who, fully aware of what is happening, allows himself to be killed by tyrants. Socrates, if we can believe Plato’s dialogues, used to set forth his ideas in myths. The highest principle is clearly: ‘Know yourself’, since evil is defined as self-ignorance.
Sustainability can be seen as balancing three kinds of capital value — social, material and natural. Natural capital includes biodiversity at all its levels. Material capital consists of money, and built and manufactured objects. Social capital is invested in health, education and social organisation. (A) The natural environment is frequently ignored or undervalued in much economic and political analysis. Particular decisions might be supported by cost-benefit analysis but future costs arising from damage to natural capital are often ignored. (B) Political systems frequently favour such flawed decision-making because it offers seemingly good value to the beneficiaries. Environmental degradation generally occurs because a powerful lobby is getting something for nothing. (C) Three major branches of science inform our understanding of these issues: ecology, economics and politics. Much of the challenge in sustainable development demands the reformation of relationships between the three.
In a 2008 National Geographic article, Verlyn Klinkenborg noted, “Of all the pollutions we face, light pollution is perhaps the most ① easily remedied.” Returning the night sky to its natural state is as ② simple as thoughtful placement of outdoor lighting: putting light where it’s needed and darkening areas where it’s not. Solutions are available and possible to implement. Moreover, these solutions are guided by principles and technology ③ that save energy, conserve resources, and restore ecosystems. Light pollution is controlled by maximizing efficiency, improving security, and ④ created a more aesthetically pleasing nocturnal environment. When we eliminate unnecessary light at night in our communities, we also conserve resources, lower costs, and improve the quality of life. If only the other serious environmental issues ⑤ facing the globe were this easy and rewarding to solve! 
Captive breeding programs and laws such as the Endangered Species Act are a kind of first aid measure in global efforts to protect species. They can be thought of as emergency measures needed to preserve the planet’s biodiversity. They’re similar to the kinds of treatment a heart attack patient receives in an emergency room of a hospital. An emergency room physician may save a patient suffering from a heart attack, but unless the patient diets, exercises, quits smoking, and learns to handle stress, he or she is not likely to survive very long. By the same token, emergency measures are not enough to ensure a diverse, biologically rich world. To achieve this goal, preventive measures are needed. Like other environmental problems, this one can be addressed by slowing, even halting, the growth of the human population and a fundamental redesign of human systems such as agriculture, energy, industry, and waste management. 
Though most bees fill their days visiting flowers and collecting pollen, some bees take advantage of the hard work of others. These thieving bees sneak into the nest of an ① unsuspecting “normal” bee (known as the host), lay an egg near the pollen mass being gathered by the host bee for her own offspring, and then sneak back out. When the egg of the thief hatches, it kills the host’s offspring and then eats the pollen meant for ② its victim. Sometimes called brood parasites, these bees are also referred to as cuckoo bees, because they are similar to cuckoo birds, which lay an egg in the nest of another bird and ③ leaves it for that bird to raise. They are more ④ technically called cleptoparasites. Clepto means “thief” in Greek, and the term cleptoparasite refers specifically to an organism ⑤ that lives off another by stealing its food. In this case the cleptoparasite feeds on the host’s hard-earned pollen stores. 
Killer whales have been observed in all oceans and seas, but are more prevalent in the coastal waters at higher latitudes. Although reported in both tropical and offshore waters, killer whales prefer colder and more productive waters of both hemispheres, and are found in greatest abundances at high latitudes. Along the West Coast of North America, killer whales occur in British Columbia and Washington inland waterways along the entire Alaskan coast. They also occur along the outer coasts of California, Oregon, and Washington. Killer whales are black with white underparts. There is a white spot on each side of the head, just above and in back of the eye. Their dorsal fins are sharply triangular and very tall, reaching up to 6 feet in height. Killer whales can reach up to 31 feet in length. Like sperm whales, killer whales are unusual among cetaceans in that males reach a much larger size than females. 
 If you kept a list of things observed in the sky, it might include birds, smoke, clouds, rainbows, halos, lightning, stars, the Moon, the Sun, and comets. One of the first ideas that might occur to you is that the sky has depth. (A) Or perhaps you see a solar eclipse, and you conclude that the Moon is closer to you than the Sun. In this way, all of the objects on your list could be put in order of distance from an observer. (B) Therefore, if a bird flying by blocks your view of a cloud, you logically conclude that the bird is closer to you than the cloud. Then you see a cloud move “in front of ” the Sun, and you conclude that the cloud is closer to you than the Sun. (C) Some things in it appear closer, and some appear farther away. Why? Perspective! From everyday experiences you know that closer objects block your view of more distant objects. For example, if you hold your hand in front of your eyes, you cannot see a more distant tree.
 In fact, photosynthetic organisms dissipate (dump purposely) a large part of absorbed light energy to prevent the buildup of reactive oxygen species (intermediates of photosynthesis) that can damage the plant. Photosynthesis is considered by many to be the most important biological process on Earth. ( ① ) Photosynthesis involves the highest energy processes of life; it is the process where (by far) most of the energy in our ecosystem is captured. ( ② ) All other biological processes are exergonic (they lose the energy captured by photosynthesis) — and thus all other processes involve less energy than photosynthesis. ( ③ ) It is also the process where, by far, the most energy in our ecosystem is lost. ( ④ ) At full sunlight, regulatory dissipation can involve more than 75% of absorbed light energy. ( ⑤ ) Consequently, typical agricultural crops store only about 1% of their absorbed solar energy in the form of biomass. 
Amateur scientists and independent scholars played an important role in the growth of modern science (Joseph Priestley and Gregor Mendel are two good examples), but today almost all scientists have Ph.D.’s and academic or industry affiliation. Funding is provided by public granting agencies, like the NSF or NIH in the United States, as well as private institutes and corporations, each with their own agendas and responsibilities. Research is evaluated for publication through a deliberative system of peer review and then disseminated in highly specialized professional journals. In many fields a research article will have more than twenty authors, arranged hierarchically like film credits. Like the movies produced by a Hollywood studio, or the laws enacted by a legislative body, scientific knowledge ________________ .
The narratives that people create to understand their landscapes come to be viewed as marketable entities and a source of income for residents. Landscapes with a strong place identity have an advantage in marketing to tourists, as it is relatively easy to compartmentalize and market their narratives. Such places may have disadvantages as well, however. If place identity is tied to a particular industry, local residents may feel strongly attached to the definitions of place that stem from involvement in that industry, and they may ________________ in favor of one based on a tourism industry. People rooted in landscape may feel strong connections to other community members and may resent the invasion of outsiders who they believe are different and challenge their common identity. Finally, local residents may feel that this process reduces their identities to mere commercial transactions, and they may believe they sacrifice what is unique and special about their place.
Coaches must understand that when they make a strategy decision, it is a good or bad decision at the time it is made based on the players’ abilities, the situation, and the percentages, not on (A) what / whether the play was successful or unsuccessful! Coaches make decisions based on all the factors available to them, and then the players have to execute the play called by the coach. How the players perform their skills on a particular play (B) to have / has nothing to do with the wisdom of the coach’s decision. The coach must make his decision before he knows how the players will perform (known as first guessing), but the fans, parents, and media have the luxury of waiting until a play is over and then (C) determined / determining if the decision was a good or bad one (known as second guessing). Fans, parents, and the media are therefore never wrong on a strategy decision! 
 Clearly, there are times when it is beneficial to focus narrowly and others when a wider focus is preferable. For example, tennis players must be able to focus narrowly on the ball but also use a broad focus to establish which way the opponent is moving — and hence to plan their next stroke. (A) Effective attenders are those who can rapidly switch the direction and width of their attention and who do not easily become overloaded by information. Effective attention is beneficial in all sports. (B) Similarly, it is sometimes important to focus on ourselves and other times more important to be able to focus on external events. For example, a rugby forward might maintain an internal focus in a scrum to be sure he was pushing effectively but an external focus to follow the direction of the ball. (C) However, success in some sports is particularly associated with a particular attentional skill. For example, karateka particularly values a broad external focus (called zanshin), which allows the fighter to detect an attack from any direction.
Boomerang throwing has few equals as an individual sport. Being an unusual type of activity, it serves admirably as a hobby. I have never known a person to become familiar with the art of the boomerang and not be caught in the irresistible sweeping tide of its appeal. But there is an aspect of the boomerang that plays a most conspicuous role in its appeal — the making of the boomerang is as interesting as the throwing. In fact the making and the throwing are inseparably related in the full enjoyment of the pastime. There is pleasure in throwing a boomerang that is purchased or obtained from someone else, but it is in no respect comparable to the joy and thrill that results in handling one which you yourself have made. All the time the boomerang is being whittled, you are looking forward to throwing it — constantly in your mind is the question, “Will it come back?” And when the last chip has been removed, you hasten to hurl it — and it works! There is a thrill and glowing satisfaction that can only come from a very few other pastimes! Even the old-timer at the boomerang game never fails to experience it; he may have made a thousand boomerangs, yet each time he throws a new one and it works perfectly just as he planned that it should, he feels a surge of pride and satisfaction that is worth many times over the effort required for the making. It is a feeling of ________________ , of having been the cause! So great, in fact, is this joy that comes from seeing a newly-made boomerang work perfectly, that one is always tempted to put the stick away after throwing it enough to test it thoroughly, and then to make another designed to act in a different way.
 Today the term artist is used to refer to a broad range of creative individuals across the globe from both past and present. This rather generic usage erroneously suggests that the concept or word “artist” existed in the original contexts. (A) Inventions, ideas, and discoveries have been credited to the persons who originated them. This view is also at the core of the definition of an “artist.” Artists are perceived to establish a strong bond with their art to the point of combining into one “entity.” (B) In contrast to the diversity it is applied to, the meaning of this term continues to be mostly based on Western views and values. Since the fifteenth century, this tradition has been concerned with recognizing individual achievements. (C) Art history has reinforced this oneness: A painting by Pablo Picasso is called “a Picasso.” This union between artists and their work has determined the essential qualities of an artist: originality, authorship, and authenticity.
What traditional entertainment always promised was to transport us from our daily problems, to enable us to escape from the struggles of life. ① Analyzing the mechanism through which this was achieved, literary scholar Michael Wood in his book America in the Movies described our films as a “rearrangement of our problems into shapes which tame them, which disperse them to the margins of our attention,” where we can forget about them. ② This is what we really mean when we call entertainment “escapist”: We escape from life by escaping into the neat narrative formulas in which most entertainments are packaged. ③ Still, with movies there was always the assumption that the escape was temporary. ④ There are certain old movies that were used as a reference guide for making quality movies today. ⑤ At the end of the film one had to leave the theater and reenter the maelstrom of real life. 
Many teachers shy away from using contemporary art in their teaching because they do not feel comfortable with their own level of knowledge and are reluctant to introduce their students to anything they may not have mastered themselves. This response is not unique to educators. As art critic and historian Lucy Lippard has pointed out, the field of contemporary art “has become mystified to the point where many people doubt and are even embarrassed by their own responses.” To make matters worse, teaching resources are scarce. The absence of curriculum materials about contemporary art reflects the attitude that the only valuable art is that which has “withstood the test of time.” This attitude, in turn, reflects the belief that it is possible to establish universal cultural standards that remain fixed and permanent.
What we enjoy in music is not the words, the meanings, or the concepts hidden in the lyrics, but first and foremost, the music that is in the human voice, in the words and in the entire performance of the singer. Then we also highly value the quality of the voice, compared to others, in the same way that we enjoy the sound of certain instruments more than others. This is why even when we do not understand the words in a song, we still enjoy it if the music is good. Thus, while the singer turns, twists and elongates the words, the act performed by the singer becomes nothing other than making strange noises that are very soothing when done well. Outside this context, it becomes very difficult, if not totally impossible, to explain why we enjoy songs.
When photography came along in the nineteenth century, painting was put in crisis. The photograph, it seemed, did the work of imitating nature better than the painter ever could. Some painters made pragmatic use of the invention. There were Impressionist painters who used a photograph in place of the model or landscape they were painting. But by and large, the photograph was a challenge to painting and was one cause of painting’s moving away from direct representation and reproduction to the abstract painting of the twentieth century. Since photographs did such a good job of representing things as they existed in the world, painters were freed to look inward and represent things as they were in their imagination, rendering emotion in the color, volume, line, and spatial configurations native to the painter’s art.
Most of us probably parent the way we were parented. Louise, a mother who attended my seminars, shared how ① her mother dealt with sibling fighting. Louise said her mother’s infamous threat was always, “If you kids don’t stop fighting, ② I’m going to knock your three heads together!” Louise and her siblings were always puzzled about the specifics of how their mother would actually accomplish such a task, which, thankfully, ③ she never attempted. But what drove her mother to make this empty threat? Extreme annoyance with the sibling arguments, probably. No doubt, Louise’s mother had learned this threatening tactic from ④ her own mother, and, in the absence of any other parenting tools she knew of, she said it to her own children, regardless of whether it worked. If Louise had not learned the effective parenting skills taught in the seminars, ⑤ she would probably be using similarly ineffective threatening techniques with her own children today! 
 One reason people sometimes stay in jobs they dislike is that they don’t want to disappoint people in their lives. Sometimes, the people in our lives are very invested in our staying the same as we have always been. (A) People who are stuck and want you to stay stuck, or people who have successfully moved forward in their lives? Take it from other people who have changed directions successfully in their own careers and in their own lives. (B) When they see us change direction in a career or in life, it can be scary for them. They may try to discourage you for reasons that actually have nothing to do with you. (C) This situation is very common. Incidentally, if you find yourself in this circumstance, think about it this way — if you need advice about how to go in a new direction successfully, whom should you take it from?
Online charter schools, also known as cyber--schools, enroll students in full-time schooling delivered over the Internet and have become a fast-growing alternative to traditional brick-and-mortar public education. The National Education Policy Center estimated in 2013 that 300 full-time cyberschools enrolled more than 200,000 students throughout the United States. When the performance of children who receive their education at cyberschools is assessed, the results, however, are dismal. Dropout rates for cyberschooled students often exceed 50 percent; the graduation rate for these students is about two-thirds the rate for traditional schools and student-teacher ratios are as high as 200 to 1 in some cyberschools. When it comes to student achievement, children educated in cyberschools lag far behind children educated in traditional brick-and-mortar public schools. State department of education ratings of cyberschools in 2011 – 12 showed that more than 70 percent were rated as academically unacceptable.
 Establishing and maintaining limits is important because failing to do so is destructive to self-esteem in the long run. Clearly defined expectations and limits are parental attitudes often associated with developing positive self-esteem in children. ( ① ) Setting high but not impossible expectations, for instance, involves providing clear standards of worthiness. ( ② ) Setting goals and holding standards lets the child know that certain forms of behavior are desirable, good, or “worthy” and to be strived toward. ( ③ ) For example, a long line of developmental literature shows that parental over-permissiveness is related to negative behaviors such as impulsivity and aggressiveness. ( ④ ) The same literature, which can be found in almost any standard text on child development, indicates that limits that are too severe or too harshly enforced are also problematic. ( ⑤ ) For instance, they can engender the development of anxious and restrictive behavior, rather than spontaneity and engagement with life. 
There has been much written about the use of “time out” as a means of interrupting negative behavior cycles. “Time out” is when a child is removed, voluntarily or involuntarily, from a situation and given time to cool down. Time out works best when it is used as a preventative measure, rather than a punishment. Therefore, it is most effective when implemented very early on in an escalating cycle. Most parents read our children well. Most of us know when things are heating up. There’s a certain look on the face, a particular tone of voice, increasing volume, provocative statements, and even specific situations when we know that conflict will most likely escalate — in the car, during the “witching hour” before supper, first thing in the morning. If a child can be given a second chance before the situation has gotten out of hand, the conflict may be skirted, or even avoided. This is rather like a “take two” on a movie set —complete with clapperboard.
Since the concept of a teddy bear is very obviously not a genetically inherited trait, we can be confident that we are looking at a cultural trait. However, it is a cultural trait that seems to be under the guidance of another, genuinely biological trait: the cues that attract us to babies (high foreheads and small faces). ① Cute, baby-like features are inherently appealing, producing a nurturing response in most humans. ② Teddy bears that had a more baby-like appearance — however slight this may have been initially — were thus more popular with customers. ③ Teddy bear manufacturers obviously noticed which bears were selling best and so made more of these and fewer of the less popular models, to maximize their profits. ④ As a result, using animal images for commercial purposes was faced with severe criticism from animal rights activists. ⑤ In this way, the selection pressure built up by the customers resulted in the evolution of a more baby-like bear by the manufacturers. 
The speaker who is too slow not only loses track of the matter, he also ① harms the listener. Some people report that when they have to listen to very slow speakers, they very soon get headaches and cannot enjoy the contents of the speech. Keeping in mind physiological speech limits, we do not ② recommend a fantastically speedy speech, but an extremely slow speech is also of no use. ③ Similar is the case with reading. Too fantastic a reading speed crossing physiological perceptual limits is of no use because it impedes comprehension. Too slow a reading is altogether ④ hopeless since it does not help in comprehension. There is no support in research for the popular notion that slow reading leads to ⑤ poorer comprehension. 
On the national level of culture, we assume that people of the same national background share many things that bind them in a common culture: language, values, norms, and traditions. Thus, we expect Germans to differ from Hmong based on differing national cultures. However, cultures can be formed on other levels, such as generation, gender, race, and region, among others. For example, in many parts of the country, regionalisms exist. People who live in the middle of the United States (in states such as Kansas, Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Indiana, and Wisconsin) are often referred to as “Midwesterners.” People who live in Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut are called “New Englanders.” Both Midwesterners and New Englanders have their own unique way of looking at things, but the two regions also share a great deal in common — namely, pragmatic thinking and an independent spirit.
Literature students often wonder if there is a rule about how much you should quote. The answer is that you should quote what will best serve to illuminate your point, neither more nor less. Sometimes a single sentence, or a single line of verse, will be enough; sometimes you will need a whole paragraph or a whole sonnet. When quoting, you must take care to pick precisely the right passage. Neither the random chunk of text with the image you want to draw attention to buried somewhere inside it, nor the stray line which may perhaps remind the reader of the relevant couplet you fail to quote, will make your point effectively. You must be careful, too, not to quote in such a way that you distort your author’s meaning. It is sensible to avoid the really obvious quotation, which may be a jewel of our literature in its proper place, but in the context of your essay will strike the reader as a cliche.
 In seventeenth-century England, a political movement was promoted by the Levellers to eliminate all distinctions in position or rank in order to make everyone equal. (A) One of the features essential to its success was the low cost of entry and participation. A penny was the price of admission. Two pence was the price of a cup of coffee. A clay pipe cost a penny and a newspaper was free. These coffeehouses sprouted all over London and came to be called “Penny Universities.” (B) It did not succeed in transforming British society, but it did succeed in England’s newly evolving coffeehouses where a new intimacy emerged among people who had earlier been kept distant from one another. (C) So popular did they become that the amount of small change minted was inadequate for the demand and the coffeehouses and the houses had to issue tokens that were generally acceptable within the immediate area.
 But the examination of the accuracy of information obtained in this manner is not a simple matter. The one area in which the Internet could be considered an aid to thinking is the rapid acquisition of new information. ( ① ) But this is more fictional than real. ( ② ) Yes, the simple act of typing a few words into a search engine will virtually instantaneously produce links related to the topic at hand. ( ③ ) What one often gets is no more than abstract summaries of lengthy articles. ( ④ ) As a consequence, I suspect that the number of downloads of any given scientific paper has little relevance to the number of times the entire article has been read from beginning to end. ( ⑤ ) My advice is that if you want to do some serious thinking, then you’d better disconnect the Internet, phone, and television set and try spending twenty-four hours in absolute solitude. 
As a general rule, historians find it difficult to isolate events in history and argue their impact upon society, when they are so well woven into the continuous tapestry of life. However, perhaps because of how embedded steam railways are in the development of the modern world, we can say that they changed the world. Our lives right now are a direct result of the innovators, visionaries, designers, workers and daily users that created and advanced the steam railways. Had that development not happened as it did, we would be living in a very different society today. Arguably, many of the problems we face today are an indirect consequence of economic, social and political developments in the nineteenth century, but so too are the solutions. Thanks to the introduction of the railways, we may have lost some sense of British regionality, but we can offset that against a sense of British unity.
Digital spaces — social media sites, websites, chat areas, discussion boards, online games, workspaces, classes, conferences, and hangouts, even the spaces in which we share email and text messages — are sometimes called virtual. Digital work teams and organizations, in particular, are commonly described as virtual in nature. The use of the term virtual is misleading, though, for it implies that something is almost, but not quite, real. And where digital spaces are concerned, that is simply not the case. As sociologist W. I. Thomas has classically stated (in what has come to be called the Thomas Theorem), if people “define situations as real, they are real in their consequences.” Digital experiences and the spaces in which they take place are quite real and have real, definite consequences. For this reason, many consider descriptors such as sociomental, networked, and/or digital preferable to virtual in describing these spaces and societies.
 In heavy but free-flowing expressway traffic, something — for instance, an accident, unusually heavy entry at some interchange — forces a few drivers to slam on their brakes. Their abrupt slowdowns force those who follow to slam on their brakes. (A) Suppose that all drivers stay 1.8 seconds behind the vehicles in front of them. As roads become more crowded, the distance between vehicles must diminish. The speed required to stay 1.8 seconds behind must, therefore, also diminish. (B) The resulting chain reaction abruptly changes a traffic stream averaging 50 mph into one in which all vehicles travel in lockstep at 5 – 20 mph. This phenomenon can be modeled by exploiting a variant of the commonly cited safety rule that drivers should stay 2 – 3 seconds behind the vehicles they follow. (C) By reducing the average distance between the vehicles it contains, each traveler in a traffic stream imposes a cost on all others in the stream by slowing them down.
When we come to digital environments, we seem more than willing to accept a range of communicative choices among groups of people without questioning them. Today, we are so swamped by communicative resources and so used to making full use of them, changing, juxtaposing and alternating them, that it seems almost pointless to investigate the patterns of such rapid, taken-for-granted and apparently unpredictable mixes. It is “natural” that during an online video conversation participants use both speech and writing at the same time. When questioned for the book survey, interviewees appeared more than puzzled when they had to reflect on these alternations between voice and text, even though these patterns were used extensively and regularly. It is also quite normal and typical for bloggers to use pictures, wording, videos and many other resources in their blogs. It would be a very marked choice if they did not!
People sometimes make downward social comparisons — comparing themselves to inferior or worse-off others — to feel better about themselves. This is self-enhancement at work. But what happens when the only available comparison target we have is superior or better off than we are? Can self-enhancement motives still be served in such situations? Yes, they can, as captured by the self-evaluation maintenance model. According to this theory, we shift between two processes — reflection and comparison — in a way that lets us maintain favorable self-views. In areas that are not especially relevant to our self-definition, we engage in reflection, whereby we flatter ourselves by association with others’ accomplishments. Suppose you care very little about your own athletic skills, but when your friend scores the winning goal during a critical soccer match, you beam with pride, experience a boost to your self-esteem, and take delight in her victory celebrations as if, by association, it were your victory too.
Self-esteem is the appreciation of one’s worth and importance in society. Oftentimes having a lot of confidence ① means a high level of self-esteem, but just because they may be related does not necessarily mean one leads to the other. Just because one has confidence does not guarantee they will feel good about ② themselves. A simple way of looking at how much you like yourself is standing in front of the mirror, ③ liking what you see, and how you feel about what you see (without distorting your image, both figuratively and literally). ④ The more you like about what you see, the more able and willing you may be to put yourself out there in the public eye. It is easier said than done. The bottom line is establishing a level of self-esteem that allows you to be confident enough to make your own choices as opposed to having them ⑤ make for you by others. 
As parents we offer our children not only experiences that help shape their developing minds but also ourselves. Children learn from us by watching us and modeling what we do. If teaching were telling, the job would be easy. Children will learn what’s important to us and what we value by living with us, not just by hearing what we say. Who we are, the nature of our character, is revealed in how we live and how we make decisions about what we do. No matter how much we reflect and deepen our introspection, ultimately how we act in the world gives the true message of our values. Children observe these outward expressions of our character and remember, imitate, and recreate these ways of being in the world. The old saying, “ ________________ ” is only wishful thinking on the part of parents. Our children watch us because they want to know who we are.
As individuals go through life, they build up sets of beliefs about who they are and how the world works. These sets might include specific beliefs such as “Heart trouble only affects people older than I.” The problem, of course, is that events in the real world can challenge such beliefs. When the challenge is great enough, individuals may be forced to drop their beliefs and develop new ones. It is in this context that growth can occur. Subsequent to the trauma, individuals may rebuild their assumptions in ways that map more closely onto the world as it is for them now, and this, in turn, may facilitate future coping. Individuals may also be provided with opportunities they did not see before (e.g., new careers, new relationships). In these ways, and others, it is possible for individuals to experience some growth alongside of, and because of, the loss and pain associated with the trauma. The growth (e.g., improvements in social support) may in fact result from the individuals’ attempts to deal with the trauma.
 False reading of other people’s emotions and the failure to detect incongruity between another person’s emotions and his/her behaviour can result in mistaken action and reaction on our part. Relationships would be a lot easier if people were completely honest in telling one another how they are feeling and what they are thinking. ( ① ) In reality, this happens very rarely so we are left to read between the lines, detect overtones or pick up visual cues from one another’s facial expressions or body movements. ( ② ) However, not everyone is aware of how to decode non-verbal communication, and not everyone is emotionally expressive and therefore easy to ‘read’. ( ③ ) For example, we may react strongly to our misinterpretations and act defensively to perceived emotional threats that simply do not exist. ( ④ ) These are sometimes referred to as ‘false negatives’. ( ⑤ ) For example, students may react angrily and aggressively to a peer who ‘looked at me funny’, or a teacher may feel outrage when a student refuses to make eye contact during a reprimand. 
When consumers lack adequate information to make informed choices, governments frequently step in to require that firms provide information. In the United States, we are all familiar with the mandatory nutritional information placed on food products. The Securities and Exchange Commission that monitors American stock markets forces firms to meet certain reporting requirements before their stock can be listed on exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange. Such reporting helps ensure that private investors have reliable information on which to base their investment decisions. Often, however, these regulations do not work adequately, as the Enron scandal in 2001 clearly illustrates. The oil trading company Enron had cooked its books to overstate its profitability in its mandated reports. One outcome of Enron’s subsequent financial collapse was the introduction of new regulations designed to improve the reliability of the information that companies must provide to the public.
Corporations are often born from small companies that grow gradually over time. The folklore that generates during that time constitutes its tradition. ① Tradition and folklore define a culture over time and give the workforce a sense that they belong to something that is publicly recognized as valuable. ② Yet, today, corporations can be born overnight, by growing up around a product or through a corporate restructuring. ③ The result is that we have many large new cultures being created that have mass but no “experience,” or tradition, and no bonding as a group. ④ Indeed, corporations today are not only seeking to acquire innovative, high-potential start-ups, but also trying to mimic the energetic culture of young companies. ⑤ They produce people who feel like technical components in a production machine but have little sense of tribe, or blood, or community. 
The exchange rate, which is the price of the domestic currency in terms of a foreign currency, (A) is / to be an important indicator of macroeconomic stability. Foreign trade and investment decisions are influenced by the prevailing exchange rate. Wide fluctuations in it create uncertainty in the environment, lead business units to postpone their exports, imports, and investment decisions, and thus retard business and economic growth. Similarly, long-term trends in (B) it / them reflect on the fundamental weaknesses or strengths. A continuous depreciation of the exchange rate, implying a decline in the value of the domestic currency in comparison with foreign currency, reflects the inherent weakness in an economy, and prevents foreigners from investing in it. On the contrary, a continuous appreciation in the exchange rate hints at the sound fundamentals and attracts foreign investors to (C) invest / be invested in domestic currency and market. 
A useful parallel can be drawn between the credit card and cigarette industries. The practices of the cigarette industry create a variety of personal troubles, especially illness and early death. ________________ (A) ________________ , those practices have created a number of public issues (the cost to society of death and illness traceable to cigarette smoke), and thus many people have come to see cigarette industry practices themselves as public issues. Examples of industry practices that have become public issues are the aggressive marketing of cigarettes overseas, where restrictions on such marketing are limited or nonexistent, as well as the marketing of cigarettes to young people in this country (for example, through advertisements that featured the controversial ‘Joe Camel’). ________________ (B) ________________ , the practices of the credit card industry help to create personal problems (such as indebtedness) and public issues (such as the relatively low national savings rate). Furthermore, some industry practices — such as the aggressive marketing of credit cards to teenagers — have themselves become public issues. 
Today, in the world’s urban centers, such as New York, Tokyo, London, and Rio de Janeiro, the very rich and very poor live next to one another even while they exist in different worlds. Despite ① physical proximity, they have little in common. Many of the rich are members of a growing globalized business elite that is psychologically ② distant from the poor whom they pass on the street every day. Members of this elite often work for giant ③ transnational corporations like IBM. Regardless of nationality, most speak English as their common language, dress the same, have the same customs, take holidays together, share the same views on economics and politics, and send their children to the same universities. They travel ④ widely and stay in touch with one another constantly by means of e-mail, fax machines, and telephone. Overall, they have more in common with and feel a greater kinship toward one another than to their ⑤ wealthy countrymen. 
 That is why people experience jet lag when traveling across time zones. In humans, body clocks are responsible for daily changes in blood pressure, body temperature, hormones, hunger, and thirst, as well as our sleep-wake cycles. ( ① ) These biological rhythms, which we experience as internal time, are probably older than sleep, developed over the course of millions of years of evolution. ( ② ) They facilitate physiological and behavioral changes on a roughly twenty-four-hour cycle no matter what is happening outside, whether a cold front moves in or clouds block the light of the sun. ( ③ ) Their internal clocks continue to run in accordance with the place they left behind, not the one to which they have come, and it can take some time to realign the two. ( ④ ) The most remarkable thing is that our internal body clocks can be readjusted by environmental cues. ( ⑤ ) We may get jet lag for a few days when we ask our body clocks to adapt to a vastly different schedule of day and night cycles on the other side of the Earth, but they can do it. 
It seems that bacteria can actually communicate with one another, and can even do so with other bacterial species. Bacteria can sense the ① presence of other bacteria, and even whether their number is sufficiently great, referred to as a quorum, to produce the malign effects that they are so ② skilled in eliciting. Small numbers of bacteria don’t produce much harm, but when a quorum is reached, the large number of bacteria will coordinate the ③ absorption of chemicals that make us ill. There are efforts being made to determine what chemical stimuli are being detected by bacteria to make them ④ engage in a coordinated release of their chemicals, as well as what genes on a bacteria are being activated that cause them to behave as they do. Once this is determined, it may be ⑤ possible to develop antidotes, so to speak, to prevent or reverse the effects of bacterial infection. 
We sometimes think of aging as a process applying uniformly to the whole organism, yet physiological studies show that different parts of the body age at different rates. For example, white blood cells die and are replaced within 10 days, but red blood cells last 120 days. ① The stem cells that produce all blood cells reveal no signs of aging at all. ② Cells in the brain last as long as the body lives; once the brain is fully formed, neurons do not exhibit significant cell division, and unless damaged by illness, they remain largely intact. ③ Today, researchers continue to learn from blood stem cells and are working to identify new ways to use them in the clinic. ④ But apart from long-living stem cells and brain cells, most parts of the body are constantly subjected to damage and repair. ⑤ The mechanisms that contribute to this process of aging include wear and tear, the effects of free radicals, and the decline of the immune system. 
Most of us have a general, rational sense of what to eat and when — there is no shortage of information on the subject. Yet there is often a disconnect between what we know and what we do. We may have the facts, but decisions also involve our feelings. Many people who struggle with difficult emotions also struggle with eating problems. Emotional eating is a popular term used to describe eating that is influenced by emotions, both positive and negative. Feelings may affect various aspects of your eating, including your motivation to eat, your food choices, where and with whom you eat, and the speed at which you eat. Most overeating is prompted by feelings rather than physical hunger. Individuals who struggle with obesity tend to eat in response to emotions. However, people who eat for emotional reasons are not necessarily overweight. People of any size may try to escape an emotional experience by preoccupying themselves with eating or by obsessing over their shape and weight.
Considering that crickets produce 50 percent less carbon dioxide than cattle per unit of weight gain and convert feed into food twice as efficiently as chickens, four times more efficiently than pigs, and twelve times more efficiently than cattle, insects deserve to be more popular on menus. Since insects aren’t warm-blooded, they don’t need to consume as many calories as warm-blooded animals when putting on weight. Insects also use up less water than livestock per unit weight of flesh. A backyard cricket farm, located in a warm climate (insects are small creatures and therefore are more vulnerable to cold than mammals) could contribute impressive quantities of protein for a surging, hungry population, yet the farm could still be readily managed by a retiree. It’s hard to deny that edible insects could create a much smaller environmental footprint than equivalent-sized portions of meat, especially in densely populated countries that don’t have space for rearing bigger livestock.
I am pleased to inform you that you have been selected by the Department of Integrative Arts to receive an Undergraduate Graphic Design Scholarship. This scholarship was established to recognize outstanding full-time students enrolled in graphic design in the Department of Integrative Arts who have achieved positive academic records. To receive this scholarship, you are expected to complete two items. First, please review and sign the enclosed Release of Information Form. Second, we ask that you send a thank-you letter to the scholarship donor whose name appears below. Donors believe that both they and you are making a difference in the world. They are interested in hearing about you — your academic plans, activities, and career goals, as well as what this scholarship means to you. Enclosed you will find some general tips to help you compose your letter. Congratulations and best wishes for a productive and successful academic year
One day I was walking along the edge of a cliff above a big river. A raven followed me along the trail, landing on tree branches and calling to me. At a place along the cliff where the air currents formed strong updrafts, the raven started to play. When wind hits a cliff, the air shoots upward so strongly that a bird can get carried up without having to flap its wings. The raven soared upward effortlessly. Then, at the top, it flipped over, tucked its wings in and dived straight down, spiraling as it went. After a few long seconds of spinning free fall, the raven caught the updraft and soared back up to the top. It did this again and again as I stood there laughing, wishing that I too could play in the wind.
Let’s be real, chores are the worst. Those dirty pots and pans taunt you from miles away, reminding you that you can’t really relax until they’re sitting clean and tidy in the cabinets. But studies have shown that doing chores — especially starting to do them at an early age — is good for everyone in the house. According to professor Marty Rossmann, a family education research expert, kids who were given chores early in life — around four years old — had a more solid relationship with their parents. But wait, there’s more! These grocery-helping, floor-sweeping, lawn-mowing wunderkinds were also found to be self-sufficient and had better grades. So rather than think of chores as, well, a chore, think of them as the ultimate exercise in mindfulness — using time to reflect and meditate. And maybe, just maybe, the chores won’t seem so overwhelming.
All musics have a history, and all music changes, has always been changing, though at various rates and not always in the same direction. It would be foolish to assume that the music of India, because it is largely melodic and without harmony, somehow represents an “earlier stage” through which Western music has already passed, or that Europeans, in the days when they lived in tribes, had music similar to that of Native Americans. Musics do not uniformly change from simple to complex. Each music has its own unique history, related to the history of its culture, to the way people adapt to their natural and social environment. The patterns we may discern in the world’s music history usually have to do with the relationships of cultures to one another. Thus, in the twentieth century, as Western-derived culture has affected most others, most non-Western musics now show some influences of Western music. However, the results of this influence vary from culture to culture.
The world we live in is like a sea. The deeper we go into it, the greater are the disturbing forces we have to face. If we are not trained to bear these pressures, we collapse and fail to achieve the goal of our existence. In that case, we sink and then blame the world for it. We forget the nature of the world and the fact that there is no use blaming external circumstances. We should, on the other hand, train ourselves to withstand the pressures of the world. For this, we have to develop enough internal strength so that the two neutralise each other and we are able to dive into this worldly sea like professional divers. If we remember this, we shall not only perform our roles well but will enjoy life too.
A child climbs on the Tomb of the Unknown Warrior, touches something he is not supposed to touch, or is misbehaving in a museum, restaurant, school bus, or other public place or event. Someone who is not the child’s parent (passerby, neighbor, camp counselor, museum employee, bus driver) approaches the child, or his parents, and asks that he comply with behavioral expectations. The child’s parent responds with: “But he’s not doing any harm!” This may well be true. Yet, what if we set the bottom line only at the point where a child does harm? Once he has hit his little sister, destroyed something valuable, hurt another child, been suspended from school, broken the law, or contributed to his parents’ marital discord? This means that the child actually has to do harm before we will say, “Enough!” and the limit that the child internalizes is something along the lines of: “Anything goes until I actually hurt someone.”
 The graph above shows the adult literacy rate for the population aged 15 and older by region in 2011. ① While the global adult literacy rate was 84%, developing countries’ adult literacy rate was slightly lower than the global average. ② Two regions, Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia, were at or near universal literacy, with the adult literacy rates of 99% and 100%, respectively. ③ In both East Asia and the Pacific and Latin America and the Caribbean at least nine out of ten adults were able to read and write. ④ However, less than three quarters of the adults could read and write in Arab states, which means the region’s adult literacy rate was below the global average. ⑤ The adult literacy rate in South and West Asia was also below the global average, but it was still higher than that of sub-Saharan Africa, which ranked the lowest among all regions. 
WLSA WEST TO EAST EXCHANGE Have you ever been interested in taking a group of your students to China? The WLSA West to East Exchange provides students the opportunity to visit schools in China joining World Leading Schools Association (WLSA). There is no better way to celebrate diversity than to participate in the educational and cultural activities of a different country. OPPORTUNITIES AND DATES Chinese Associates are able to host between 4 and 10 students (per school) for a one-week-long exchange between March and early June each year. ACCOMMODATION The majority of schools in China offer accommodation on campus. If your school or students would prefer staying with student families, please inform us so that we may explore this possibility for you. Should you prefer to arrange accommodation at a hotel near to the school you are visiting, we will be happy to help with making the arrangements. If you would like WLSA assistance in identifying an exchange partner, complete and return the Seeking an Exchange Partner Application to us at programmes@wlsa.org.
2018 CHAPARRAL POETRY CONTEST Submit your original poems to: CHAPARRAL POETRY FORUM 2280 South Bloomington Drive #6 St. George, UT 84790-6803 Unlimited Entries Welcome: Postmarked Sept. 1, 2018 through Dec. 1, 2018 ENTRY CATEGORIES: •CHOLLA Division: any subject, any form •CHIMERA Division: Imaginative or absurd/humorous, any form GUIDELINES: ◈ Each poem must 1. Be original, UNPUBLISHED, 42 lines or fewer 2. Be entered in only one of the two categories 3. Be in 12-point font in standard face such as Times New Roman 4. Have won no more than $10 in any contest ◈` SEND two unfolded copies of each poem, the Division Title at top left of each poem 1. First Copy has only the Division Title and no ID 2. Second Copy has ID at the top right corner (name, address, phone, and email) 3. INCLUDE entry fees: $3 per poem (e.g. 6 poems for $18.00)
The Lascaux Caves in southern France are the site of an important discovery: prehistoric art on a scale never seen before and dating from approximately 15,000 B.C.E. The caves were accidentally discovered by a group of boys searching for their lost dog, and soon after, archeologists were called in to investigate. Paleolithic artists at Lascaux painted over 600 images and made more than 1,500 life-like carvings of animal, including images of horses, cows, deer, and bulls, deep within the caves. The art discovered at Lascaux was dizzyingly impressive and attracted numerous visitors after opening to the public in the 1940s. The arrival of tourists resulted in severe damage to the art and the caves were permanently shut to visitors in 1963. Anyone looking for an alternative experience can now visit Lascaux II, an exact copy of the Great Hall of the Bulls and the Painted Gallery sections of the original cave, which was opened in 1983.
One of the settlements taking advantage of earth as a natural insulator can ① be found in Coober Pedy, Australia, an opal-mining town with 1,700 residents. Since extensive underground networks were already in place from the old opal mines, it was a logical step for locals ② to move underground to escape the intense summer heat of the Australian Outback. Temperatures in the area ③ regularly climb to over 40 degrees Celsius (about 100 degrees Fahrenheit). While not all residents live underground, the network of “dugouts” is extensive and also ④ to feature several underground churches, a jewelry store, a bar and — in one house — an underground swimming pool. These homes are also good for the environment, as they have a much smaller carbon footprint (the amount of carbon your actions release into the atmosphere) than ⑤ that of a traditional home. 
Recently published textbooks on art of the post-World War II era include more women, artists of color, and other previously excluded groups than ever before. The call for cultural equity has reached a point where most authors (A) disregard / recognize the need to include at least some diversity in their selection of artists. However, inclusion alone does not eliminate the differential treatment of art. Many surveys of contemporary art (B) contain / skip a section that clusters artists of color, women, and other groups in a discrete chapter on identity or “alternative” art. The problem here is not only one of segregation in the guise of integration but also one of point of view: who decides what is an “alternative”? In other cases, gendered or racialized themes provide the pretext for such segregation, such as addressing the theme of domesticity exclusively with works by women. Often this approach wrenches artists and artworks out of their historical contexts in order to have them (C) oppose / support a particular theme. 
Jean’s mother ruled her daughter’s practice sessions with an iron fist. She cut Jean no slack. ① Her rule for Jean was an hour of practice, seven days a week. If Jean missed a day, her mother made her practice for two hours the next day. If she missed three days, her mother called me and canceled ② her lesson. Her mother assumed that with only four hours of practice, Jean’s lesson would be a waste of time. Jean resented her strict practice demands and unwillingly put in her time, but ③ her playing skills remained poor. I finally persuaded her mother to abolish the practice chart. The change in Jean was miraculous. ④ She arrived at her lessons happier and well prepared. Now she focused on what ⑤ she needed to improve, not on how many minutes had ticked by. 
A region that has a wide variety of species in robust populations is said to possess biodiversity. But not every place on Earth bursts with diverse life. This does not mean the Earth’s biodiversity is gone. Biodiversity concentrates in certain areas, while other parts of the globe possess a somewhat lesser variety and number of species. Healthy ecosystems require larger population sizes of certain species such as plants and small prey animals to serve as food for other animals, and some other species must have small population sizes to reduce competition between individuals. For example, in a mountain ecosystem, predators such as mountain lions exist in much smaller numbers than deer, which serve as mountain lion prey, yet insects live in huge numbers because they are food for a variety of species of other insects, birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and fish. Environmental scientists must understand this normal ________________ in nature to assess biodiversity and species loss.
To illustrate: I see a particular blueberry I’m about to pick, and the word ‘blueberry’ may well jump to mind. But this concept refers not just to the object I’m placing in my hand; it refers to all the blueberries that ever were or that ever will be. Verbal generalizing ability of this sort forms a spectacular achievement, because we can use such generalizations to understand the past and to predict the future. Even in this minor case, for example, I can move the concept ‘blueberry’ around in order to appreciate why people have gone blueberry picking for millennia, why raising blueberries has become big business in Maine, and why blueberry futures are not a bad investment. However, if ‘blueberry’ had referred only to the specific thing I just picked and no more, the sound would have slipped away silently, devoid of ________________ .
Failure to ________________ is at the origin of much silliness in our society. Are we sure that the Earth is going to keep heating up if we don’t do anything? Are we sure of the details of the current theory of evolution? Are we sure that modern medicine is always a better strategy than traditional medicine? No, we are not, in any of these cases. But if, from this lack of certainty, we jump to the conviction that we had better not care about global heating, that there is no evolution and the world was created six thousand years ago, or that traditional medicine must be more effective than modern medicine — well, we are simply stupid. Still, many people do make these inferences, because the lack of certainty is perceived as a sign of weakness instead of being what it is — the first source of our knowledge.
Even though unemployment is painful to those who have no source of income, reducing unemployment is not costless. In the short run, a reduction in unemployment may come at the expense of a higher rate of inflation, especially if the economy is close to full capacity, where resources are almost fully employed. (A) , trying to match employees with jobs can quickly lead to significant inefficiencies because of mismatches between a worker’s skill level and the level of skill required for a job. For example, the economy would be wasting resources subsidizing education if people with PhDs in biochemistry were driving taxis or tending bars. (B) , the skills of the employee may be higher than those necessary for the job, resulting in what economists call underemployment. Another source of inefficiencies is placing employees in jobs beyond their abilities. 
Introducing broader measures of well-being into the policy arena raises a host of unanswered questions. Among them is a conundrum raised repeatedly by my research: the paradox of happy peasants and frustrated achievers. ① While poor people are less happy than wealthy people on average in countries around the world, very poor people often report that they are very happy. ② In fact, they often report higher levels of happiness than their slightly wealthier counterparts and at times even higher levels than the very rich (miserable millionaires). ③ People cannot truly be happy without finding meaning in life because without meaning they are missing a big piece of the puzzle of happiness. ④ This puzzle is explained in part by people’s ability to adapt to adversity and related differences in norms and expectations. ⑤ While better accounting for differences in norms, expectations, and capacity to adapt can enhance our understanding of human well-being, they also complicate comparisons based on well-being data. 
 The ancients knew that content should not be confused with the way the content is conveyed, and yet that the packaging was also important. (A) It’s certainly not recommended that a doctor, for instance, grab her patient by the throat, slam him against the wall, and shout profanities at him, while telling him that smoking is bad for his health. Being a successful doctor requires a certain bedside manner. (B) There’s no doubt that certain things, such as two and two adding up to four, must be taught as absolutely true, but the manner in which the truth is taught can vary over a wide range of methods. (C) Similarly, in teaching there are more and less effective ways to teach something. For instance, hitting a student over the head with a stick while trying to get across the idea that two and two make four is not the best way to teach.
 In the early days of the 20th century, the editor of a small-town newspaper in Indiana wanted to delay the afternoon edition of the paper until he received word of who had won the Indianapolis 500. (A) The correspondent telegraphed back, “WILL OVERHEAD WINNER.” In telegram language, this meant that the correspondent would send the name of the winner by telegram when it was available. (B) Unfortunately, the editor didn’t realize that, and the afternoon edition of the newspaper appeared with the headline “Will Overhead Wins Race” with a short article about a racer named Will Overhead coming out of nowhere to win the Indianapolis 500. (C) In those days, the fastest form of communication was the telegraph, so the editor made arrangements for him to be telegraphed the name of the winner. Being nervous about holding up the afternoon edition of the newspaper, the editor telegraphed his correspondent, reminding him that the afternoon edition was being held up.
 However, social coordination also occurs automatically, nonconsciously, and effortlessly throughout our daily encounters with other people. What do jazz bands, sports teams, and construction crews have in common? ( ① ) To succeed at their jobs, these groups of people require a high degree of social coordination. ( ② ) For many complex tasks, such as those above, the ability to effectively coordinate with others requires intensive training. ( ③ ) Just as walking down the street involves the coordinated action of muscles, nerves, and control centers in the brain, having a conversation with someone involves coordinated actions like speaking at the right time, understanding the intentions of the speaker, and, often, mimicking facial expressions and posture. ( ④ ) Coordination can even be anticipatory, as when people alter their mood state prior to interacting with unfamiliar others. ( ⑤ ) The ubiquity and automatic nature of such processes suggests that social coordination may be a fundamental property of social interaction. 
 Luckily, experts were able to prevent such a tragedy. Some major advances in science and technology have posed threats. ( ① ) In 1979 radioactive water leaked from a nuclear power plant at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania, threatening the safety of the entire area. ( ② ) For several days, specialists sought to cool the nuclear generator to prevent “meltdown,” an overheating of the nuclear facility that would have spread radioactive materials over hundreds of miles of heavily populated areas. ( ③ ) Residents of towns near the plant waited anxiously, ready to flee their homes in case of disaster. ( ④ ) But the near-accident raised new questions about the safety and practicality of atomic energy as a possible alternative to oil. ( ⑤ ) Several years later, policymakers began to wrestle with the problem of what would be done to dismantle nuclear plants when they were obsolete, something those who originally built them may never have considered. 
Parents are not the only ones unsure in a world that has changed so quickly. The society that surrounds them is equally confused. In a recent Gallup poll, American parents supported seemingly contradictory family values. 87 percent reported they held “old-fashioned values about family and marriage,” and 68 percent believed that “too many children are being raised in child care centers today.” At the same time, 66 percent rejected the idea that “women should return to their traditional roles in society,” and 64 percent also rejected the idea that “it’s more important for a wife to help her husband’s career than to have one herself.” Clearly, change has happened too quickly for some of our values and beliefs to catch up. Families are caught in the dilemma of rapid change in very real ways. Most jobs are still designed as if there were a homemaker to provide support for a working husband, and many institutional practices assume that all children live with two biological parents. Social structure has changed rapidly; changes in social and personal values and feelings lag behind. ⇩ Personal and social values and beliefs about family have not successfully (A) changes in social structure that have taken place too rapidly, with (B) spread across American society. 
When a wish becomes reality, it may not be what you truly want at all. King Midas wished that everything he touched would turn to gold. His wish was granted, and he was exuberant until he touched his beloved daughter, who turned into a gold statue. If you were granted a perfect memory, it may be your greatest ________________ in terms of brain health and higher-level thinking. Your brain is updated moment by moment and hour by hour. In essence, you frequently get a new processing system. Indeed, you have the potential to change your brain with everything you do that has some level of challenge, novelty, or variety. My research has found an interesting paradox: when one focuses on remembering the minute details, it may adversely affect the ability to engage in more strategic abstract thinking. In essence, trying to remember as many details as possible can actually work against being selective about what you let into your brain’s attic. This pattern helps explain why access to more information is not, on its own, making us smarter. More likely, quite the opposite is true. Exposure to large volumes of information steals and freezes your brainpower. However, my research has also shown that when focused and engaged more in strategic, abstract thinking, it becomes easier to remember the details. 
My husband and I decided that we would take his mother and my mother on holiday. At this point, my mother was 86 and my mother-in-law was 90 and it was a big thing for them to go on holiday. After they had settled, we invited the rest of our families to join us — our brothers and sisters and their children — because we thought it would be lovely for us all to spend time together. A couple of days later we were all heading out to the swimming pool and my mother decided that (a) she wanted to have a go at swimming. Due to an accident many years ago and the fact she is very old, she finds it hard to walk, so this was a big thing for her to do. But once she got in the water, she was able to swim really well because the water was supporting her. (b) She looked so happy being free and feeling strong, and started to remember how she used to feel when she was younger. With her confidence up and the energy of her past memories to boost her, she then decided that (c) she wanted to dive under the water. We weren’t sure what she’d be able to do, but she surprised us all by swimming the whole length of the pool (about 49 feet) underwater! We were shocked and so happy — as (d) she was — and everybody started clapping and laughing. In all this excitement, none of us had noticed that my mother-in-law had disappeared. A few minutes later she appeared in her swimming costume, which she had not worn for 60 years: she had decided to have a go at swimming too! (e) She started off very slowly and then got stronger and more confident and soon the two of them looked young and happy. Cameras were flashing as we encouraged them — and soon we were drinking champagne to celebrate their achievements. The rest of us then jumped in the pool and we all started acting like we were kids. We splashed and laughed and threw a ball around — and the atmosphere was amazing. 
Crystal City School District strives to provide a safe environment for our students under every circumstance. The administration at Crystal City High School recently became aware that eight of our student-athletes had developed a staph infection. There has been no confirmation that the infection was contracted at our school, but we are in the process of testing and sanitizing our locker rooms, restrooms, and the weight room several times a day with disinfectant designed to eliminate these infections. The areas of the school that may be affected have been and will continue to be sanitized and disinfected. Please be assured that the necessary steps have been taken to prevent further transmission of the infection. Included along with this letter is information from the National Athletic Trainers Association regarding the prevention of a staphylococcus infection. Our school works to develop a safe environment for our students throughout our facilities.
Come early! If you follow only one tip in the whole book, make it this one. Although in recent years the mornings have become more crowded than they used to be, you’ll still find far shorter waits for big-deal rides than you will in the afternoon. How important is an early arrival? During a recent October visit we got to the Magic Kingdom about 30 minutes before the stated 9 am opening time, and it took us approximately 10 minutes to get through the bag check and entrance gate. The next day we arrived at the Animal Kingdom 30 minutes after the stated 9 am opening time, and it took us over 20 minutes to get through the bag check and entrance gate. In other words, even an hour delay in arriving can double the amount of time it takes you to do a routine task. And when it comes to rides, the difference is even greater.
While the transportation infrastructure may shape where we travel today, in the early eras of travel, it determined whether people could travel at all. The development and improvement of transportation was one of the most important factors in allowing modern tourism to develop on a large scale and become a regular part of the lives of billions of people around the world. Technological advances provided the basis for the exponential expansion of local, regional, and global transportation networks and made travel faster, easier, and cheaper. This not only created new tourist-generating and tourist-receiving regions but also prompted a host of other changes in the tourism infrastructure, such as accommodations. As a result, the availability of transportation infrastructure and services has been considered a fundamental precondition for tourism.
A fine line exists between appropriate support and excess pressure. Although we can certainly stimulate development of cell networks when they are ready, many aspects of this growth cannot be rushed. It is possible to force skills by intensive instruction, but this may cause the child to use immature, inappropriate neural networks and distort the natural growth process. Trying to speed learning over unfinished neuron systems might be similar to racing a limousine over a narrow path in the woods. You can do it, but neither the car nor the path ends up in very good shape! Moreover, the pressure that surrounds such learning situations may leave permanent emotional debris. There is an order in which learning is programmed to take place; while it can be encouraged, it need not be forced.
Have you ever watched an icicle form? Did you notice how the dripping water froze, one drop at a time, until the icicle was a foot long or more? If the water was clean, the icicle remained clear and sparkled brightly in the sun; but if the water was dirty, the icicle appeared cloudy, its beauty spoiled. In the same manner our character is formed. Each thought and action adds to its shape. Each decision we make — about matters great and small — contributes. Every bit that we absorb into our minds and souls, be they impressions, experiences, or the words of others, helps create our character. We must remain concerned at all times regarding the “droplets” that we allow to drip through our lives. Acts that develop habits of love, truth, and goodness silently shape and mold us into what we ought to be — just as habits born of jealousy, hatred, and evil mar and eventually destroy us.
Kids, especially teenagers, are hard to corral for anything — especially lectures. That’s why it’s important to weave money lessons into day-to-day life. Did your son get a check from Grandma? It’s a great time to finally take him to the bank, open that savings account you’ve been talking about, and help him deposit the money. That also leads to discussions of interest rates and choices between, say, certificates of deposit and regular savings accounts. Are you about to buy a new family laptop? Have your kid help you shop around for it (and, if you can, allow him to keep a portion of the difference between the price at the local electronics store and any better deal he can find you online). And when making a big purchase — say, a car — take your kid with you to the lot and discuss negotiation techniques.
 The above graph shows the percentage of people in the United Kingdom who enjoy and dislike doing household chores. ① Cooking is by far the nation’s favourite chore: more than six in ten Britons say they enjoy cooking, compared to just 16 percent who dislike it. ② With 44 percent of people saying they enjoy tidying and organising, it is the only other household chore that Britons are more likely to enjoy than dislike. ③ On the other hand, half of the people in the country dislike having to do ironing, making it Britons’ most hated household chore. ④ Cleaning the house is also an unpopular chore, with 44 percent of people saying they dislike having to do so. ⑤ Taking out the bins is the third most unpopular household chore in the United Kingdom and just one in ten Britons enjoys the chore, making it the second least enjoyed. 
Open Mic Poetry Night Please join us in the Salberg High School cafeteria for a poetry event. The poetry night is open to all ages. Time: Tuesday, April 24th Refreshments & Registration begin at 6:15 p.m. Poetry Reading 6:30 – 7:30 p.m. ♬`Hear live poetry readings and recitations. ♬` Bring a poem to read aloud — this can be one you have written or one by a favorite poet you wish to share. ♬`After each poetry reading, share a personal story related to the poem. This is a free event, but we gladly accept your donation, which will be spent for the next poetry night. For more information, please visit our website at www.salberghigh.edu.ca.
Treetop Zipline Tour You will soar high through the canopy of enormous trees while gliding over 7 different ziplines. Whether you are an experienced zipliner or a beginner, the thrill of ziplining is waiting for you! There will be an opportunity for everyone to try it out and if anyone decides not to participate, they will get 100% of their money back! •Participants: Kids ages 7 & up are welcome when with an adult. •Duration: 2.5 Hours (including warming up and other activities) •Price: Adult $159.95 / Child $99.99 •Restrictions: – Minimum weight: 70 pounds, Maximum weight: 280 pounds – Closed toe shoes must be worn. For questions about restrictions, please contact our ticket office or visit our Zipline FAQs page at www.treetopzipline.com.
The red squirrel is the only tree squirrel to be found in most parts of Europe, although in Britain red squirrels have suffered from competition with the introduced grey squirrels and they have become extinct in most of England during the last 50 years. In Britain they are consistently a bright reddish brown but in many parts of continental Europe a dark greyish brown or almost black form can also be found. The prominent ear tufts, which are so characteristic, are present only in winter. Red squirrels are most abundant in conifer woodlands where they feed mainly on conifer seeds extracted by ripping the scales off the cones. It can take as many as 200 cones to provide a reasonable day’s food so they must work very hard for their living. Squirrels’ nests are usually built high in trees. They do not hibernate but in winter they are less active and spend much of their time in their nests.
Everyone loves to get surprises, especially children, since they live in a world that is constantly teaching (A) them / themselves something new. One of the best ways to generate “romance” in your relationship with your child (a sense of being creatively alive in your relationship together) is to do the little extras for no reason at all. I remember putting one dozen beautiful roses in a vase when Julia was seven or eight and (B) watched / watching her face change from surprise to delight when I told her that they were for her. “Who are they from?” she asked me curiously. “From the angels,” I said. “They just wanted you to know how much they love you!” A week later, there was a letter addressed to me in crayon without a stamp (C) that / what Julia had put in the mailbox. It was a note from the angels thanking me for delivering the flowers on their behalf. 
A company might find a market ① attractive if it fits the company’s long-term vision and objectives. While short-term profits may be constrained, the long-term profitability picture may look more favorable. General Electric’s participation in the market for medical imaging devices (called CT scanners) in the 1970s ② reflects this mode of thinking. During the 1970s, GE acquired other companies that made CT scanners, but were ③ uninterested in remaining active in the market due to declining sales volumes and market saturation. By purchasing these assets, GE obtained a dominant ④ short-term position in the market. Although the market exhibited no immediate signs of growth at that time, its subsequent return to growth and profitability made GE a ⑤ powerful player in the CT scanner market, especially in the United States. 
During fifth grade, Steffie lived with her mother and her grandmother. Steffie claimed that she used only Spanish with her grandmother, because when her mother spoke to ① her in Spanish, she usually answered in English. Her mother confirmed that ② she had been “more lax” about Spanish use and had been using increasingly more English in the home. During fifth grade Steffie would regularly watch novelas (soap operas) in Spanish with her grandmother. However, her mother had established a new rule that ③ she could not watch television from Monday through Thursday during the school year, in order that she would focus on homework. Thus, exposure to Spanish television with ④ her grandmother had been practically eliminated. With her friends she used exclusively English, aside from ⑤ her example of an occasional comment such as “El portero estaba muy malo” (‘The goalie was bad’) when discussing a soccer game. 
One of the keys to end all wars, hatred, bigotry, suffering, violence, and disease is kindness. Perform acts of kindness every single day. When you act with kindness, your brain increases its serotonin level going into your system. Serotonin is an organic compound, found in the brain, which makes you feel good. It also boosts your immune system. So, with acts of kindness, you get two for one. You feel good and you ward off illness. However, here’s the best part, the person who is the recipient of the act of kindness also feels an increase in his or her serotonin level as well as does everyone in the immediate vicinity. This is beautiful stuff. If we all performed one little act of kindness each day, eventually we would have a world at peace and free of ________________ !
Denial takes many forms and has almost as many definitions. In classical Freudian terms, denial is simply a defense mechanism that we employ to obscure or revoke our basest impulses. Later theorists, such as Carl Rogers, substantially expanded this definition, suggesting that people deny thoughts, facts, or events that are at odds with ________________ . A student who believes herself poor at spelling may regard an “A” on a spelling test a mere fluke. A man diagnosed with terminal cancer may refuse to believe that someone as healthy as himself could ever become so ill. A mother who gives birth to a physically handicapped child may insist that it couldn’t be possible since no one in her family has ever suffered such a handicap before.
Children learn mathematics by beginning with the concrete and moving to the abstract. The concrete may be fingers, blocks, beads, raisins, or almost anything that they can see and touch. Depending on the way math is taught, they may spend a great deal of time at the concrete level before switching to the abstraction of numbers. (Although we may not think of this very often, Arabic numerals like 4 are abstractions, symbolic representations of quantities.) Some children learn to add, subtract, multiply, and divide with beads before they are taught to use numerals. Music is also both abstract and concrete in its use of numbers. A ticking metronome or a clapping teacher is providing aural representations of numbers: the child is hearing 3 or 4. It is quite possible that music enhances mathematical understanding by ________________ .
Technology in the modern world displays the character of a necessary, almost deterministic force. Technological developments create technological problems which require further technological responses ad infinitum. There has been a qualitative shift from earlier eras in which specific tools and techniques were developed through the freely chosen creativity of human beings to meet specific, limited objectives. Technology now obeys its inner logic of development as rigorously as we used to think that nature obeyed its own laws. This necessity is especially visible in a larger view of the technological complex as a whole. “If it can be done, it will be done; indeed, it must be done.” Technology carries its own imperative to further development. At this point technology ________________ . This apparent inevitability of technological expansion must be challenged. We must assert our freedom and learn to say “no” once in a while.
Does music change technology, or does technology change music? History says the latter. ① The advent of the phonograph record (1877) ended the monopoly of the live performance; the fidelity wasn’t as good as live music, but millions of new listeners would soon enjoy it nonetheless. ② In the 1940s, the advent of the electric guitar caused the end of swing music and made head-banging rock music possible decades later. ③ In our day, the digital delivery of sound on YouTube and other streaming sites has changed how we receive music as well as its quality. ④ The experience of listening to live music is different from that of listening to recorded music in ways that cannot be measured or identified. ⑤ And, just as the digital revolution has altered our contemporary musical landscape, so did technological advancements lead to the modern symphony orchestra. 
 Research has shown us that identical twins separated at birth will get different diseases based on how they live their lives. A recent American Heart Association-funded study compared the lifestyles and arteries of nearly five hundred twins. (A) Even if both your parents died with heart disease, you should be able to eat your way to a healthy heart. Your family history does not have to become your personal destiny. (B) But even among identical twins who have the exact same genes, one could die early of a heart attack and the other could live a long, healthy life with clean arteries depending on what she ate and how she lived. (C) It found that diet and lifestyle factors clearly beat genes. You share 50 percent of your genes with each of your parents, so if one parent dies of a heart attack, you know you’ve inherited some of that susceptibility.
 Thanks to millions of years of evolution, we have developed into very intelligent beings. When it comes to managing weight, however, we are influenced by the body’s mechanisms designed to get us through times of famine. (A) As a result of this famine, your brain will slow your metabolism to help you hold on to energy stores for the future. Human society has evolved, but the human brain still has some catching up to do. (B) This means saving excess weight so we have something to use for energy if a time comes when food is scarce. The only problem is that this doesn’t happen the same way it did in ancient times. (C) Today we have developed reliable food sources that provide us with a food supply very different from that of our ancestors. Unfortunately, your brain is still influenced by ancient-brain thinking and may perceive going for periods of time without food (like when you skip meals) as times of famine.
 You can sometimes accomplish this by using your imagination to visualize other viewpoints. For most of the important issues and problems in your life, one viewpoint is simply not adequate to provide a full and satisfactory understanding. ( ① ) To increase and deepen your knowledge, you must seek other perspectives on the situations you are trying to understand. ( ② ) Usually, however, you need to actively seek (and listen to) the viewpoints of others. ( ③ ) It is often very difficult for people to see things from points of view other than their own, and if you are not careful, you can make the mistake of thinking that the way you see things is the way things really are. ( ④ ) In addition to identifying with perspectives other than your own, you also have to work to understand the reasons that support these alternate viewpoints. ( ⑤ ) This approach deepens your understanding of the issues and also stimulates you to critically evaluate your beliefs. 
 However, the way in which that information is presented — in particular, whether the emphasis is placed on losses or gains — influences the decision-making process. If we wish to act rationally, we ought to make decisions by weighing the probability and desirability of the various outcomes that would result from deciding one way or the other. ( ① ) The manner in which those outcomes are portrayed should make no difference. ( ② ) The water in a glass that is described as half-full or half-empty will quench our thirst to an equal degree. ( ③ ) However, the human mind turns out to be significantly swayed by how potential outcomes are portrayed. ( ④ ) Logically speaking, telling someone that the engaging in act X promotes outcome Y, or that not engaging in act X fails to promote outcome Y, provides the same objective information: Y (partly) depends on X. ( ⑤ ) Hence, we seem to make judgments about things in the world, not as they are in themselves, but as they are relative to other things. 
Speaking is intrinsically social. Whether it comes from a person or a machine, speech activates a powerful and varied cognitive apparatus that is designed to express and recognize who a person is and what she or he is thinking and feeling. Although people have separate parts of the brain that are devoted to each social judgment and each aspect of speech production and understanding, people do not have separate parts of the brain for human speech and technology-generated speech. Even when voice interfaces exhibit all of the limitations associated with machines — including odd pronunciations, emotional ignorance, and chronic inconsistencies — they are not exempted from the social expectations that are activated by talking and listening. When technologies, regardless of quality, fail to conform to social norms, users experience confusion, frustration, and cognitive exhaustion and question the competence, utility, and enjoyability of the system. Socially inept interfaces suffer the same fate as socially inept individuals: they are ineffective, criticized, and shunned. ⇩ Given that any speech involving communication between two agents (A) social expectations, human-machine interaction using voice should (B) social norms. 
A chef does not turn off the oven when the meal is half done. Even microwaves take some time to cook. Far too often we lose patience with the process and quit too soon, missing out on what we could have gained. In these fast times, we run the risk of cutting the harvest short. Watching the corn grow can be a very anxious process. We want it safely in the barn now. Yesterday would be even better. Our lives are one big hurry. We rush through our childhood, red lights, and a courtship as if channel surfing. We speed-read directions, come late to and leave early from meetings, and choose a church because its worship service is precisely one hour long. Our addiction to speed gets us things we’d not have without it, but it also guarantees we’ll never see things we long for most. ________________ , going into debt to purchase a car, clothes, and vacation can keep us from qualifying for a house or the kind of home we dream about. Haste in a relationship can ruin long-term fulfillment, because we go too fast too soon or wind up with someone who is less than our dreams. The unwillingness to persevere with an organization through its trying times can cut us out of potential rewards when the tide changes. Waiting for the harvest is not fun for most of us, but when we plant seed and then run off to some other plot of ground without reaping our harvest, we’ve wasted a portion of our lives. 
(A) The nest was high up near the top of an old spruce tree on the ridge overlooking the lake. In the nest were two young birds. One bird had white tips on his wings, so Mother Osprey called (a) him White Wings. The other bird was much darker, like his mother, so she called him Black Wings. The two birds sat on the edge of their nest and watched fish rising in the calm waters of the lake below. Both of them loved to try to catch the biggest fish. (B) White Wings felt humiliated. He decided to go back out and catch a bigger fish. He flew over the water and soon spotted a huge fish. He dove down and grabbed it, but this fish was so big (b) he couldn’t lift it out of the water. The big fish began to drag White Wings under the water. Mother Osprey called out to (c) him, “Let go, White Wings. Quickly!” White Wings heard her and released his big fish. White Wings flew back to the nest and sat there, all dripping wet. He thought to himself, “Now Black Wings is really going to make fun of me.” (C) Black Wings took off from the nest and flew out over the lake. He spotted a trout feeding near the surface and dove straight down and splashed into the water above it. (d) His sharp talons grasped the fish, and with a flap of his wings he took off, carrying his prize back to the nest. White Wings saw him and was determined to catch a bigger fish. He saw a fish and dove down and picked it up. He flew back to the nest and compared his fish with Black Wings’, but it was smaller. Black Wings bragged, “I win. My fish is bigger than yours. I’m a better hunter than you are.” (D) But instead Black Wings came over to him and said, “Are you all right? You could have been killed! I’m sorry that I made fun of you.” White Wings felt better, and (e) he said to his brother, “Thanks. I’ve learned that in any game, if you lose, you should not take it too seriously.” Black Wings nodded and said, “And I’ve learned that when you do win a game, you should be respectful to others and not brag about how good you are.” 
Recently, I received your fundraising letter describing the financial support required to realize the upcoming programs and services of GDRO, Global Development Relief Organization. As you know, I admire and feel connected to the purpose and mission of your organization, and I am amazed by the effects of the services you provide. During past fundraising drives, I was able to express my admiration and support of your endeavors with a monetary donation. However, at this time, I regret to say that I am unable to contribute funds to your cause, but please do not view this inability as an expression of my wavering support. I continue to value highly the work that GDRO does, and I hope to be able to express my admiration and support of the organization again in the future.
It was about midnight when we were passing right over DFW airport. Everything was going fine. All of a sudden the cockpit lit up like it was daylight. I could not figure out what was going on. I thought maybe we were in the headlights of a big jet going into DFW. I told my passenger to look for planes. The tone of my voice really scared him and he was frantically looking around. I started to make a clearing turn to the left, but I could see nothing. Then all at once I saw it: a big glowing ball of fire coming right at us at 12:00. I instinctively pushed in on the control wheel as the object kept coming at terrific speed. As it got closer, I could see that it was solid rock about 10 – 15 feet in diameter. It soared about 2,000 feet over us and then we were plunged back into darkness.
The symphony is the ideal genre for the public concert hall, for it aims to please a large listening public. The string quartet, on the other hand, typifies chamber music — music for the small concert hall, the private chamber, or the simple enjoyment of the performers themselves. Like the symphony, the string quartet normally has four movements, all unified by a common key. But unlike the symphony, which might have a dozen violinists joining on the first violin line, the string quartet features only one player per part: first violinist, second violinist, violist, and cellist. Such an intimate ensemble has no need for a conductor; all performers function equally and communicate directly among themselves in a spirit of disciplined collegiality. No wonder the German poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe compared the string quartet to “a conversation among four intelligent people.”
In the physical sciences, it is usually the case that a handful of concepts can be applied to solve problems across a wide range of contexts. Research literature on the transfer of knowledge suggests that when people acquire knowledge in one context they can seldom apply this knowledge to situations in related contexts that look superficially different from the original context, but which are related by the major idea that could be applied to solve or analyze them. The implication is that students should learn to apply major concepts in multiple contexts in order to make the knowledge “fluid.” Other sciences that have larger sets of concepts also require practice for students to relate the concepts to new and varied situations. To repeat what has been said before, providing practice exercises across a variety of contexts and situations is what makes learning last — it is the way to promote transfer of learning.
A strong principal or superintendent sets the tone for the school environment. If teachers are motivated, they will perform better in their classroom, increasing the energy and enthusiasm of students. If teachers believe that their supervisor is supportive, positive, dedicated, and trustworthy, they will seek him or her out for advice and ideas. However, even the principals who have these skills do not necessarily have spare time, so that teachers find that turning to their teacher peers in camaraderie is the best solution. It is not that administrators are not welcome in the teachers’ room —although some certainly do earn exclusion —but that they are often not available to meet with teachers in addition to their other responsibilities. Teacher support, in the form of administration, must become more evident in schools so that the school structure will not be strained right from the top.
It is important to note that analogies based upon superficial features are very useful and help solve problems that the scientists frequently encounter. For example, if a scientist is obtaining uninterpretable data and another scientist makes an analogy to an experiment that worked in which the temperature was different, and suggests changing the temperature, this can potentially fix the problem. Many of the superficial analogies were of this type and solved the problem. These types of analogy are very frequent, but were rarely mentioned by the scientists in their interviews and never appeared in their lab books. When asked why they did not mention these analogies, the scientists thought that they were so obvious that they were not worth talking about. Despite the obviousness of these analogies, they are one of the most frequent cognitive workhorses of the scientific mind.
 The graph above shows the global share of national middle-class consumption for selected countries in 1965, 2011, and projections for 2030. ① In 1965, the percentage of U.S. middle-class consumption was higher than that of any other country in the world. ② 15 EU countries had the second highest percentage of middle-class consumption in 1965, the share being more than one-third of the global total. ③ The percentage of Japanese middle-class consumption increased from 5% to 8% between 1965 and 2011, but it is then projected to fall by 4 percentage points by 2030. ④ In 2011, Chinese middle-class consumption accounted for 5% of global middle-class consumption, but its share is projected to skyrocket to 17% in 2030. ⑤ In 2030, the percentage of Indian middle-class consumption is projected to be 1 percentage point higher than that of China and three times as high as that of the United States. 
Milano Theatre Company Spring Production Doors open at 7:15 p.m. for dinner. Show begins at 8:00 p.m. The Milano Theatre Company (MTC) presents “In Living Sound” at the Flame Room of the Milano Volunteer Fire Department (MVFD) on March 30 (Fri.), 31 (Sat.), and April 6 (Fri.), 7 (Sat.). MTC joins forces with the MVFD to present an evening of food, fun, and theatre. The MVFD will be serving a number of delicious items, and MTC will be serving an evening of radio theatre: comedy, crime drama, and sound effects. Further details about the show are available at the MTC website: http://www.milanotheatrecompany.com. ■ Tickets go on sale at the MTC website February 28, 2018 ■ Friday tickets: $14 per person — hot food and drinks will be available for purchase ■ Saturday tickets: $25 per person — includes dinner, drink, and dessert
28th Annual Ruskin Seafood Festival AN EVENT FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY! The 28th Annual Ruskin Seafood Festival welcomes you to E.G. Simmons waterfront park featuring sun, fun & seafood! Feast on savory seafood fare, enjoy a variety of live music and dive into the action of activities, featuring boats, arts & crafts, educational displays, plus tons of interactive kids entertainment! ◈`When Saturday, September 15th 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Sunday, September 16th 10 a.m. – 4 p.m. ◈`Where E.G. Simmons Park 2401 19th Avenue NW, Ruskin, FL 33570 ◈`Admission Adults – $5.00 Children (under 12) – FREE ◈`Parking FREE Parking! Free Shuttle from parking area to main gate VIP and Handicap parking at main gate ◈`Group Rates $3.00 per person Advance purchase only! 20 people or more for group rates ◈`For more information about the festival, email us at admin@ruskinseafoodfestival.org.
Raden Adjeng Kartini, a pioneer in the area of education for girls and women’s rights for Indonesians, was born in Japara, the northern coastal area of Central Java, when Indonesia was under Dutch colonization. Her father, the regent of Japara, sent his daughters to a Dutch school, an unusual decision for that time. As a member of an aristocratic family, Kartini enjoyed her privileged status, studying and making friends with Dutch children. Unfortunately, as a woman she was prevented from continuing her studies. Traditional Javanese culture required women to be secluded at home after reaching age twelve until the time of their parentally arranged marriage. Frustrated by being a captive in her residence, she spent most of her time reading books and writing letters to Dutch friends. The publication of her letters attracted great interest in the Netherlands and her ideas provided inspiration for prominent figures in the fight for independence.
Creativity is about “connecting the dots” —making connections between things that have never before been linked. It is the ability to recognize the possibilities that exist within any scenario and the opportunities in every situation. (A) Change / Changing the game starts with seeing the unseen within even the ordinary. Out of a plain slab of marble, Michelangelo carved his best work. German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer once said, “Talent hits a target no one else can hit. Genius hits a target no one else can see.” Creative solutions and breakthroughs come from viewing something differently and discovering (B) what / that others have missed. Patents for novel ideas, processes and methodologies are simply the tangible results of someone seeing something differently than the world had ever seen it before. Paradigms shift when people come along who see (C) how / which to connect the dots, apply multiple perspectives and build a bridge between unrelated ideas. 
Why do some in society always want more? One obvious answer is the boredom of comfort. In a rich economy, material comfort is easily ① achieved. The pleasure of satisfying the simple wants, so difficult to do in a poor society, is removed. Every day is a ② feast day. Tensions are aroused by only the new and the novel. In an otherwise boring world, stimulation and arousal are ③ sought through new and novel consumption experiences. Once incorporated into daily routines, the novelty of new consumer items wears off and the pleasure of acquiring and making use of them ④ diminishes. Playing a new computer game sparks arousal and creates tension; learning to play the game and succeeding at it brings the pleasure of tension reduction. As the experience is repeated, the level of arousal diminishes, and so does ⑤ boredom. 
When Haydn was in England, one of the princes commissioned Sir Joshua Reynolds to take ① his portrait. Haydn went to the painter’s house, and sat to him, but soon grew tired. Sir Joshua, careful of ② his reputation, would not paint a man of acknowledged genius, with a stupid countenance, and postponed the sitting till another day. The same weariness and want of expression occurring at the next attempt, Reynolds went and communicated the circumstance to ③ his royal patron, who devised the following trick. He sent to the painter’s house a German woman, in the service of the queen. Haydn took his seat for the third time, and as soon as the conversation began to be dull, a curtain rose, and the German addressed ④ him in his native language, with a most elegant compliment. Haydn, delighted, overwhelmed the German intellect with questions; ⑤ his countenance recovered its animation, and Sir Joshua rapidly seized its traits. 
Our civilization uses materials for many things, but mainly to make things with a certain size, shape, and strength. These structural uses include everything from fibers in clothing to paving in roads, and most of the mass of furniture, walls, cars, spacecraft, computers — indeed, most of the mass of almost every product we build and use. The best structural materials use carbon. With elements from air and water, carbon makes up the polymers of wool and polyester, and of wood and nylon. A twenty-first-century civilization could mine the atmosphere for carbon, extracting over 300 billion tons before lowering the CO2 concentration back to its natural, pre-industrial level. For a population of 10 billion, this would be enough to give every family a large house with lightweight but steel-strong walls, with 95 percent left over. garbage is an ample source of structural materials, with no need to cut trees or dig iron ore.
Even in societies that consider religion a central part of their life, temples, churches and mosques seem to have ________________ in the life of the city, at least as far as their distribution in the city and their size and significance relative to other functions are concerned. As urban populations have grown, and movements and functions in cities have become ever more complex and diversified, new modes of working and living have emerged. While religious beliefs and practices may rule social norms and public conduct, they do not determine the built form or the spatial structure of the city. As cities have grown, the new urban areas and suburbs have hardly caught up in their numbers of houses of worship with the older central parts. The phenomenal growth of urban areas in the twentieth century has primarily been a secular one.
It is very sad that so many children are hurried along and not given time to think about themselves. People say to them when they think that they have been playing long enough: “You are no longer a child. You must begin to do something.” But although playing is doing nothing, you are really doing something when you play; you are thinking about yourself. Many children play in the wrong way. They make work out of play. They not only seem to be doing something, they really are doing something. They are imitating the grown-ups around them who are always doing as much instead of as little as possible. And they are often encouraged to play in this way by the grown-ups. And they ________________ .
Although most people, including Europe’s Muslims, have numerous identities, few of these are politically salient at any moment. It is only when a political issue affects the welfare of those in a particular group that identity assumes importance. (A) , when issues arise that touch on women’s rights, women start to think of gender as their principal identity. Whether such women are American or Iranian or whether they are Catholic or Protestant matters less than the fact that they are women. Similarly, when famine and civil war threaten people in sub-Saharan Africa, many African-Americans are reminded of their kinship with the continent in which their ancestors originated centuries earlier, and they lobby their leaders to provide humanitarian relief. (B) , each issue calls forth somewhat different identities that help explain the political preferences people have regarding those issues. 
While the nonhuman animal species have only those two major inherited survival coping behaviors — fight or flight — in common with us, thanks to our more successful ancestors we have three major survival coping behaviors — fight, flight, and a verbal problem-solving ability. ① Fighting and running away from danger are the responses inherited from our pre-human ancestors. ② Verbally communicating with one another and working out our problems in an assertive manner instead of fighting or running away is that part of our evolutional inheritance passed down from our early human ancestors. ③ In short, while you have the inherited ability to either fight or run to survive, you are not instinctively forced to do either. ④ The worry that you may feel from time to time is normal, and it is part of the human instinct to survive and protect yourself from danger. ⑤ Instead, you have the human option to talk with others and in that way to cope with what is bothering you. 
 Is it really true that there are no universal gestures? There is some disagreement on this point. (A) However, ethologists, researchers who study the biological bases of behavior, claim that expressions of anger, pouting, fear, and sadness are built into our biological makeup and are universal. (B) Some anthropologists claim that no gesture is universal. They point out that even nodding the head up and down to indicate “yes” is not universal. In an area of Turkey, nodding the head up and down means “no.” (C) They point out that even infants who are born blind and deaf, who have had no chance to learn these gestures, express themselves in the same way. Although this matter is not yet settled, we can note that gestures tend to vary remarkably around the world.
 The critical ability of children develops rapidly after around 8 years of age. As of that age, every product that they look at is studied in detail and compared with other products. (A) These children are also very critical of media products, for example whether they do look exciting, fun or trendy. At 8 years of age, children begin to realize that commercials are made to entice them into buying products. (B) Then these commercials also no longer escape their critical examination. In contrast to younger children, who primarily see commercials as entertainment, children of this age can be very skeptical about commercials. (C) When a child of 8 gets a new pair of sport shoes, each part of the shoe, from the laces to the logo, is carefully examined and compared to the features of other shoes.
 Most maps should also indicate when they were published and the date to which its information applies. Maps not only contain spatial information and data; they also display essential information about the map itself. ( ① ) This information and certain graphic features (often in the margins) are intended to facilitate using and understanding the map. ( ② ) Among these items are the map title, date, legend, scale, and direction. ( ③ ) A map should have a title that tells what area is depicted and what subject the map concerns. ( ④ ) For example, a hiking and camping map for Yellowstone National Park should have a title such as “Yellowstone National Park: Trails and Camp Sites.” ( ⑤ ) A population map of the United States, for instance, should tell when the census was taken to let the map user know if the map information is current or outdated or whether the map is intended to show historical data. 
 The seals, for example, not only fed on cod but also on 150 other species, many of which also fed on cod! When Atlantic cod populations collapsed due to overfishing, the Canadian government suggested hunting expeditions to kill North Atlantic harp seals, because the seals were known to eat cod. ( ① ) It was assumed that eliminating the seals, a principal cod predator, would allow the cod populations to rebound. ( ② ) What the government failed to realize was that the cod/seal relationship was affected by many other less prominent species in the system. ( ③ ) So there simply was no way of knowing in advance whether reducing the seal population would actually produce more cod or less cod. ( ④ ) In food webs involving as few as eight species, there can be more than 10 million distinct chains of cause and effect that would link the seal to the cod. ( ⑤ ) How can we ever exercise effective control management in such complex, dynamic communities? 
An individual characteristic that moderates the relationship with behavior is self-efficacy, or a judgment of one’s capability to accomplish a certain level of performance. People who have a high sense of self-efficacy tend to pursue challenging goals that may be outside the reach of the average person. People with a strong sense of self-efficacy, therefore, may be more willing to step outside the culturally prescribed behaviors to attempt tasks or goals for which success is viewed as improbable by the majority of social actors in a setting. For these individuals, culture will have little or no impact on behavior. For example, Australians tend to endorse the “Tall Poppy Syndrome.” This saying suggests that any “poppy” that outgrows the others in a field will get “cut down”; in other words, any overachiever will eventually fail. Interviews and observations suggest that it is the high self-efficacy Australians who step outside this culturally prescribed behavior to actually achieve beyond average. ⇩ Even in Australian culture, where overachievement is regarded as leading to ultimate (A) , those with strong faith in their capabilities to accomplish a task are more willing to (B) culturally imposed norms to reach higher levels of accomplishments. 
Four decades ago, scientists noticed something on the African savannah. The giraffes there were feeding on umbrella thorn acacias, and the trees didn’t like this one bit. It took the acacias mere minutes to start pumping toxic substances into their leaves to rid themselves of the large plant-eating animals. The giraffes got the message and moved on to other trees in the area. But did they move on to trees close by? No, for the time being, they walked right by a few trees and resumed their meal only when they had moved about 100 yards away. The reason for this behavior is astonishing. The acacia trees that were being eaten gave off a warning gas (specifically, ethylene) that signaled to neighboring trees of the same species that ________________ . Right away, all the forewarned trees also pumped toxins into their leaves to prepare themselves. The giraffes were wise to this game and therefore moved farther away to a part of the savannah where they could find trees that were not aware what was going on. Or else they moved upwind. For the scent messages are carried to nearby trees on the breeze, and if the animals walked upwind, they could find acacias close by that had no idea the giraffes were there. 
(A) Count de Boutteville, who became later so famous under the name of the Marechal de Luxembourg, served in the army of Flanders in 1675, under the command of the Prince of Conde. He perceived in a march some soldiers that were separated from the main body, and (a) he sent one of his aides-de-camp to bring them back to their colours. All obeyed, except one, who continued his road. (B) The soldier immediately distributed them to his comrades, saying that he had no occasion for money; and requested that if what he had done merited any compensation, he might be made an officer. Then addressing himself to the count, he asked if (b) he recognised him; and on Boutteville replying in the negative, “Well,” said he, “I am the soldier whom you struck on our march fifteen days ago. Was I not right when I said that you would repent of it?” The Count de Boutteville, filled with admiration and affected almost to tears, embraced the soldier, created him an officer on the spot, and soon made him one of his aides-de-camp. (C) The count, highly offended at such disobedience, threatened to strike (c) him with his stick. “That you may do,” said the soldier, with great coolness, “but you will repent of it.” Irritated by this answer, Boutteville struck him, and dismissed him to go back to his corps. Fifteen days after, the army surrounded Furnes; and Boutteville commanded his staff officers to find a man steady and fearless for a surprise attack, which (d) he wanted, promising a hundred pistoles as a reward. (D) The soldier in question, who had the character of being the bravest man in Boutteville’s army, presented himself, and taking thirty of his comrades, of whom he had the choice, he executed his commission, which was of the most dangerous nature, with courage and success beyond all praise. On his return, Boutteville, after having praised him highly, counted out the hundred pistoles (e) he had promised. 
