Mini Test 1강
01 다음 글의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것은?
Dear Ms. Gordon, I would like to meet with you soon so that we can work together to resolve a problem my son Brian is having this year. As you know, he is a conscientious student. But he seems to be overwhelmed by the workload, and specifically the amount of time he spends on homework. He comes home from school and sometimes spends as much as two hours a night on homework, and then he worries whether he should do more. I believe he brings on much of this pressure himself, but I need your help in getting him to understand that he is doing well and does not have to be so hard on himself. I’m sure we agree that we don’t want to discourage a good student who has a great deal of potential, but we also want to allow a young child to enjoy school and his life outside of school. Please call me at your earliest convenience so that we may set a time to get together. Sincerely, Karen Kim

① 자녀의 과제의 양을 늘려 줄 것을 요청하려고
② 성적을 향상하는 방법에 대한 조언을 얻으려고
③ 자녀의 상담 시간 변경에 대한 양해를 구하려고
④ 우수한 학생을 위한 심화 수업 편성을 건의하려고
⑤ 자녀의 학업 스트레스 관련 상담 일정을 잡으려고


02 다음 글에 드러난 ‘the boy’의 심경으로 가장 적절한 것은?
The boy crawled close to the tree and leaned against it. Chills wracked him, giving place now and then to feverish heat. He must be ill, and it became plain to him that he could go no further; he must stay where he was until the fog lifted. At least he was on firm ground and as dry as any place could be in the thick mist. He might call and shout for help; possibly some peasant would hear him and come to his aid. But no, the village folk went mostly in another direction, to the peat bogs. Still, he would try. He shouted with all his strength, then listened. No sound at all; even his own voice seemed muffled in the gray air. The cold shook him so he could scarcely think; when he tried to consider his position clearly, fear gripped him again.
* wrack 몹시 괴롭히다 ** peat bog 토탄 늪

① calm and relieved
② amused and excited
③ guilty and apologetic
④ bored and indifferent
⑤ hopeless and frightened


03 다음 글의 요지로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
At the heart of the art-craft-design dilemma has always been the issue of utilitarianism. The functionality of a piece of work often determines which category is used to describe it and therefore its worth. In our society, artistic value has been placed on objects that are seemingly useless. Their purpose has been to enhance, not to serve any directly necessary function. Those that do — useful vessels, architectural plans — take on different and, in the romantic hierarchy of values, lesser meaning. They can be artful but they are not “art.” They intersect too directly with daily existence. But some questions must be asked. Are great designers, potters, and architects not artists because their work has a functional application? Are the criteria really in the object? When talented architects and artists choose to make a functional product, is it not art? How do we categorize Frank Lloyd Wright’s chairs, Dali’s stage sets, and Barbara Kruger’s T-shirts?
* utilitarianism 공리주의

① 기능성을 지닌 작품도 예술로 볼 수 있다.
② 훌륭한 예술가는 끊임없이 자신을 혁신한다.
③ 작품의 예술적 가치는 희소성에 의해 결정된다.
④ 통속적인 대중문화를 예술의 범주에 포함할 수 없다.
⑤ 미래 사회를 위해 예술과 과학기술의 융합이 필요하다.


04 다음 글의 요지로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Robert Boice has conducted detailed analyses of the work habits of faculty members, distinguishing those who are productive writers from those who are not. A major finding was that productive faculty tended to engage in short, consistent writing sessions spread throughout the week, while nonproductive faculty tended to engage in intermittent “binge” episodes of writing spread far apart — that is, they frequently procrastinated, and then, when they did write, they wrote intensively for long periods of time. Although the procrastinators believed that long, intense writing sessions were necessary to be productive, Boice concluded that binge writing itself was part of the problem. However invigorated one might feel during an intense session of writing — and procrastinators often reported this — this pattern of work is so effortful that one soon starts to avoid it. In essence, binge writing sessions are sufficiently aversive that they punish the act of writing.
* binge 몰아치기, 폭식 ** invigorated 활력이 솟아나는 *** aversive 싫어하는 감정을 갖게 하는

① 생산적인 작가는 끊임없이 아이디어를 구상하고 메모한다.
② 규칙적인 글쓰기 습관을 갖는 것은 정서 함양에 도움이 된다.
③ 글쓰기를 미루다가 몰아서 하는 습관은 비생산성을 초래한다.
④ 좋은 글은 글쓴이의 생각이나 느낌을 정확하고 쉽게 전달한다.
⑤ 잘못된 글쓰기 습관을 교정하려면 집중적인 훈련을 받아야 한다.


05 다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
There is ample though indirect evidence that sharing information about third parties is essential to communal life. In F. C. Bartlett’s classic studies of memory, he showed that when people pass on stories within a community, the stories get revised, ever so slightly, in each retelling. By the time a story has been passed around a group of friends, it has changed in ways that reflect the community’s biases, codes of conduct, and worldviews. His main point was that remembering is a social process. But his data and theory rest on an equally fundamental idea — that passing on stories about one another is central to community life. Everyone does it, all of the time, at the bus stop, the water cooler, the grocery line, the little league game, and of course, on the Internet. Gossiping, as a form of social glue, is one of our oldest accomplishments. Robin Dunbar, a British anthropologist and evolutionary psychologist, argues that once humans evolved language, gossip replaced grooming as a way for us to bond together.

① ways to protect oneself from gossip
② values of sharing wealth and resources
③ factors that make misinformation stronger
④ the emergence of the community workspace
⑤ the importance of sharing information in communal life


06 다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
In order to promote optimal muscular and skeletal health and function, the body needs to direct the muscular skeletal stress caused by holding itself up against the force of gravity down the spine and out the feet. The biomechanics of the foot play a crucial role in determining how well the body dissipates this stress. The foot needs to slide forward and the toes need to spread out as your body weight propels you forward. Enough room is required in the toe box in order to perform this function. If the shoe is too short or narrow, the toes get “jammed” and the forward and outward energy flow is disrupted. Instead of moving energy and stress down, through, and out the body, this “toe jamming” ricochets the energy off the front of the shoe and back up the skeletal system. Shoes that are too small and narrow do not encourage optimal biomechanical function of the foot, disrupting the natural energy flow of the body and potentially causing injury and discomfort.
* dissipate 분산시키다 ** ricochet 다시 올라오게 하다

① How We Found the Best Running Shoes
② What Your Walking Posture Says About You
③ How to Run: Running with Proper Biomechanics
④ Running vs. Walking: Which Burns More Calories?
⑤ Why Your Shoe Size Matters: A Biomechanical Explanation


07 다음 도표의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
The above graph shows the robot density per 10,000 workers in the automotive and nonautomotive industries of five different countries in 2014. Considering specifically the automotive industry, Japan had the highest density; it had 1,414 robots per 10,000 workers. Germany ranked second with 1,149 robots per 10,000 workers in the automotive industry, which was followed by the USA, South Korea, and China. In the case of non-automotive industries, on the other hand, South Korea had the highest density, with 365 robots per 10,000 workers. China’s robot density was the lowest of the five countries; it had only 305 robots per 10,000 workers in the automotive industry and 18 robots per 10,000 workers in the non-automotive industry.


08 Abu Bakr Muhammed ibn Zakariya al–Razi에 관한 다음 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
Abu Bakr Muhammed ibn Zakariya al-Razi, born in the Persian city of Rai, was the first great writer in Islamic medicine. He was famous as a physician in both the East and the West, where he was known as the Arabic Galen. He studied in Rai and became the director of a hospital there. He later headed the hospital in Baghdad, where students came from a distance to study with him. He is credited with 232 works, of which most are lost, including all of his philosophical writings. The most important of his surviving medical works is al-Hawi, known in its Latin translation as Continens, the longest Arabic work in existence on medicine. His paper on smallpox and measles, known in Latin as De peste, was translated into English and other Western languages and published in forty editions between the fifteenth and the nineteenth centuries.
* smallpox 천연두 ** measles 홍역

① 동양과 서양에 모두 알려진 유명한 의사였다.
② Rai에서 공부했으며 그곳에서 병원장이 되었다.
③ 바그다드 병원 책임자였을 때 학생들이 멀리서 그를 찾아왔다.
④ 저술했다고 믿어지는 작품들이 대부분 남아 있다.
⑤ 천연두와 홍역에 관한 논문이 영어로 번역되었다.


09 Kids Beginner Swimming Class에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
Kids Beginner Swimming Class Register your child for a fun swimming class! Kids Beginner Swimming Class Period: April 16th to June 1st Time: 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. (Monday to Friday) • Registration is on a first-come, first-served basis. (maximum 16 participants) • Kids must bring a swimsuit and swimming cap. • Towels are not provided. • Fee: $100 per child (Registration charge is not included.) • Registration charge: $10 For more information, visit our website, www.balance-theclub.com, or contact Nisha Millet at 974-016-6781.

① 월요일부터 금요일까지 오전에 1시간씩 진행된다.
② 선착순으로 등록을 받는다.
③ 최대 참가 인원은 16명이다.
④ 수건은 제공되지 않는다.
⑤ 수강료는 등록비를 포함하여 100달러이다.


10 Food Drive에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하는 것은?
Food Drive (March 1st–March 31st) Drop off nonperishable food items and support local families in need. Donation boxes located in: BLDG 1 – Student Lounge BLDG 2 – In front of the Department Chair’s Office BLDG 3 – Wellness Center Suggested items include Peanut Butter, Jelly, Boxed Cereal, Canned Soup, Boxed Macaroni and Cheese and the like. All food collected will be donated to the Angels’ Helping Hands. For more information, contact Carrie Wells at wellsc@easternflorida.edu. If you would like to make a donation but are unable to drop off items, call 321-433-5236 to schedule a pickup. Eastern Florida State College

① 3월부터 4월까지 두 달 동안 실시된다.
② 음식 기부용 박스가 네 군데에 설치되어 있다.
③ 상자에 넣어 포장된 시리얼은 기부를 받지 않는다.
④ 수집된 음식은 모두 Angels’ Helping Hands에 기부된다.
⑤ 기부할 식품을 직접 받아오는 수거 서비스는 제공하지 않는다.
* nonperishable 보존이 가능한


11 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 어법상 틀린 것은?
Both the budget deficit and federal debt have soared during the recent financial crisis and recession. During 2009-2010, nearly 40 percent of federal expenditures were financed by borrowing. The huge recent federal deficits have pushed the federal debt to levels not seen since the years immediately following World War II. The rapid growth of baby-boomer retirees in the decade immediately ahead will mean higher spending levels and larger and larger deficits for both Social Security and Medicare. Moreover, more than half of Americans age 18 and older derive benefits from various transfer programs, while paying little or no personal income tax. All of these factors are going to make it extremely difficult to slow the growth of federal spending and keep the debt from ballooning out of control. Projections indicate that the net federal debt will rise to 90 percent of GDP by 2019, and many believe it will be even higher unless constructive action is taken soon.


12 (A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적절한 것은?
In order to be persuasive and to increase self-confidence in the job application process, it is generally necessary to do a thorough self-inventory. A self-inventory involves listing all of the skills, experiences, and abilities you have that may be transferable in a workplace situation. For those who have held relevant jobs, this process can be relatively simple, since they should have many of the skills that are needed if they are applying for a similar position. However, for those entering the professional workplace or changing jobs, this task can be more challenging. It is not uncommon for first-time applicants to believe they have little to offer beyond some attractive personal characteristics and the proper college degree. However, performing a thoughtful self-inventory can often illuminate other needed skills and abilities.
* self-inventory 자기 조사

       (A) 		    (B) 		  (C)
① inapplicable		challenging	eliminate
② inapplicable 		straightforward	eliminate
③ transferable 		challenging	illuminate
④ transferable 		straightforward	illuminate
⑤ transferable		challenging	eliminate


13 밑줄 친 부분이 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른 것은?
A cocoa bean farmer in the Dominican Republic walked into the OTF (On The Frontier) project office in Santo Domingo and said, “My grandfather built my family’s farm. He became wealthy growing and selling cocoa beans. My father inherited the farm from him and since then he has passed it on to me. Why can’t I be like my grandfather and earn a decent wage growing cocoa?” The answer to this farmer’s question was that his grandfather didn’t become wealthy because he grew cocoa beans. He became wealthy because he was an astute businessman and an entrepreneur who saw cocoa farming as an opportunity. He became wealthy by building relationships with the suppliers of his raw materials and the distributors of the beans allowing his business, at that specific moment in time, to be competitive. The world has changed. The Dominican cocoa farmer needs new strategies and new networks of relationships to create wealth.
* astute 발 빠른, 기민한


14 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
I was once in the office of a manager when the phone rang. Immediately, he bellowed, “That disgusting phone never stops ringing.” He then proceeded to pick it up and engage in a fifteen-minute conversation while I waited. When he finally hung up, he looked exhausted and frustrated. He apologized as the phone rang once again. He later confessed that he was having a great deal of trouble completing his tasks because of the volume of calls he was responding to. At some point I asked him, “Have you ever considered having a certain period of time when you simply don’t answer the phone?” He looked at me with a puzzled look on his face and said, “As a matter of fact, no.” It turned out that this simple suggestion helped him not only to relax, but to get more work done as well. Like many people, he didn’t need hours of uninterrupted time, but he did need some!
* bellow 고함치다

① social
② shared
③ instructional
④ disorganized
⑤ uninterrupted


15 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
People have always told stories about the beginnings of the world, the birth of humanity and the adventures of the gods and heroes. These tales were born of the impulse to understand the place of humanity in the world; they were not literally true, but they filled a more important function than simply depicting actual events. Gods and heroes were brought into being because, over time, empirical truth gives way to moral truth — actual events become less important than the symbolic value they hold for those who come after. Almost all belief systems place human existence within a much greater story of creation, growth, decline and death, and in this way myths, like other forms of art, make a bridge between the human search for meaning and the essential meaninglessness of the world. The writing of history, in our modern sense of the word, came from the same impulse, and in time documentary history replaced the telling of myths as the way of understanding the past.

① get away temporarily from the harsh reality
② understand the place of humanity in the world
③ explore nature’s mysteries beyond their control
④ pass their survival skills onto future generations
⑤ divert their attention from the spiritual to the physical


16 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Advertising remains an enigma in spite of its 100-year history of practice, thought, theory and research. Its social role, for good or ill, is hotly contested. Even though most of us are very used to seeing advertisements, some advertisements still have a capacity to generate offence and provoke debate around advertising’s moral values and social influence. As consumers, we do not agree about advertising. From the practitioner’s side, too, there are obvious disagreements about how, and indeed if, advertising ‘works’; in what ways it influences consumers (or doesn’t); and on how advertising budgets should be spent most efficiently. Academic theories tend to complicate rather than clarify practitioner debates about advertising’s practical consequences. It must be admitted, though, that the advertising industry has enjoyed global growth and influence on a huge scale in spite of uncertainty about its theoretical foundations.
* enigma 수수께끼

① increasing costs of its production
② fast-changing tastes of consumers
③ fierce competition among similar brands
④ its tendency to promote overconsumption
⑤ uncertainty about its theoretical foundations


17 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
You have certainly noticed that most science curricula have a series of “critical” activities in which students participate and which supposedly lead to an understanding of a particular concept. In most cases, there is an assumption that students share a common view or a common set of preconceptions about the concept so that the activities will move the students collectively, from one point to another, hopefully closer to the accepted scientific view. This is a particularly dangerous assumption since research shows us that students enter into learning situations with a variety of preconceptions. These preconceptions are not only well ingrained in the students’ minds but are exceptionally resistant to change. Going through the series of prescribed activities will have little meaning to students who have brought to the lessons conceptions that have little connection to the planned lessons.
* ingrained 확고하게 자리 잡은

① cannot be acquired by most beginners
② are trivial enough to be easily corrected
③ have little connection to the planned lessons
④ will be perfected by the teacher’s instructions
⑤ do not resist the conventions of scientific studies


18 다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장을 고르시오.
The human-animal bond is something that continues to evolve as the role of companion animals plays a more integral part of human life. Human perceptions of just what role these animals play are extremely diverse, yet it is very apparent that many people in our society have shifted from a “backyard dog or wandering tomcat” mentality regarding pets to one of family member status. Studies have shown significant health benefits from people who have positive interactions with animals, such as petting a dog or even watching fish in an aquarium. Rehabilitation therapy using animals for physical, emotional, and addictive health problems is becoming more widely accepted as it becomes more successful and as the bond between humans and companion animals strengthens. By choosing the appropriate companion animal, you can greatly influence how strong this bond becomes and what role the animal will serve in your life.


19 다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장을 고르시오.
The technologies that are used for learning about the physical geography of our planet are rapidly changing. The abilities of computer systems to capture, process, model, and display spatial data — functions that can now be performed on a personal computer — were only a dream 30 years ago. Continuous satellite imaging of Earth has been ongoing for more than 30 years, which has given us a better perspective on environmental changes. Using various energy sources to produce images from space, we are able to see, measure, monitor, and map processes and the effects of certain processes, including many that are invisible to the naked eye. Graphic displays of environmental data and information are becoming more vivid and striking as a result of sophisticated methods of data processing and visual representation. Increased computer power allows the presentation of high-resolution images, three-dimensional scenes, and animated images of Earth’s features, changes, andprocesses.


20 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
An emotional society considers that an element of communication is to show one’s emotions. Members of such a society believe that using their emotions is an important aspect of selfexpression, so they use their voice, eyes and arms in a more demonstrative way. A neutral society is exactly the opposite because it believes that it is important to control your emotions, to keep a straight face without expression and to restrict your body language while using neutral language. The most emotional societies are the Mediterranean and the Latin American cultures. Examples of neutral societies include those of Japan and Northern Europe, including the British with their supposedly famous ‘stiff upper lip’. And the style of communication you use can cause a number of different reactions. To a neutral communicator, an emotional communicator may possibly convey unreliability, while to an emotional communicator, a neutral communicator may run the risk of conveying a lack of clarity and even possible dishonesty.

① (A) – (C) – (B) ② (B) – (A) – (C) ③ (B) – (C) – (A)
④ (C) – (A) – (B) ⑤ (C) – (B) – (A)


21 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Is reading about the negative side of life necessarily a negative experience? Some readers, in their role as citizens, define as an obligation the reading of articles and books about problematic current events and situations. Such reading may be both utilitarian and fulfilling: utilitarian because the material informs the readers about the nature of the problem and its possible solution; fulfilling because it increases their knowledge and understanding of the world in which they live. At the same time, such knowledge and understanding can be highly unsettling. Thus, a deeper appreciation of global warming gained by perusing a scientifically credible book on the matter will probably increase the anxiety of people living in areas subject to tornados and hurricanes. In short, reading some material can have both a positive and a negative effect on its readers. Moreover, such activity may be understood by them as both a kind of leisure and an instance of nonwork obligation.

① (A) – (C) – (B) ② (B) – (A) – (C) ③ (B) – (C) – (A)
④ (C) – (A) – (B) ⑤ (C) – (B) – (A)


22 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳은?
It is a common misconception among many adults that picture books are the best books to give a child who is just learning to read. It is true that some picture books have characteristics that make them accessible to beginning readers. But most picture books are written at a reading level that is much higher than that of a child in first grade since they are intended to be read aloud to children. There are, however, books expressly written for children who are learning to read that use simple vocabulary, large typeface, and short sentences. These are called easy readers, beginning readers, or simply readers. One step up from readers is another category of books that are most commonly called transitional books. These books feature simple sentences and short chapters, and serve as a bridge between easy readers and longer chapter books.


23 다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
When you hear someone tell you outright that they need help after just informing you of her tendency toward seizures, it is a bit hard to imagine that you wouldn’t notice or be aware that she was in trouble. Nevertheless, the presence of others can prevent us from helping. This is because of a powerful effect that groups can have on us, known as diffusion of responsibility. For a victim to receive help, someone needs to decide that it will be his or her responsibility to act. When you are responsible, the moral thing to do is to help. When you are the only witness, the burden clearly rests on your shoulders. But when others are present, it is easy to imagine that someone else should or has already taken action. In fact, even being primed to think about being part of a group can make people feel less personally accountable and less likely to donate money or stay to help out an experimenter.
* seizure 발작 ** diffusion 분산, 확산 *** prime 미리 알리다, 준비시키다

     (A) 		   (B)
① victims 		diminishes
② victims 		disappears
③ witnesses 		increases
④ witnesses 		diminishes
⑤ experimenters 	increases


[24~25] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
One way to cope with the inherent uncertainty about an innovation’s consequences is to try out the new idea on a partial basis. Most individuals will not adopt an innovation without trying it first on a probationary basis in order to determine its usefulness in their own situation. This small-scale trial is often an important part of the decision to adopt. In some cases, an innovation cannot be divided for trial and so it must be adopted or rejected completely. Innovations that can be divided for trial are generally adopted more rapidly. Most individuals who try an innovation then move to an adoption decision, if the innovation has at least a certain degree of relative advantage. Methods to facilitate the trial of innovations, such as the distribution to clients of free samples of a new idea, usually will speed up the rate of adoption. For example, seed corn salesmen in Iowa in the 1930s gave a small bag of the new seed to Iowa farmers entering the decision stage. The free seed was enough to plant about an acre of corn, a large enough trial to convince a farmer to adopt the new idea on all of his corn acreage in the next few years. The trial of a new idea by a peer can substitute, at least in part, for the individual’s trial of an innovation, at least for some individuals and for some innovations. This “trial by others” provides a kind of vicarious trial for an individual. Change agents often seek to speed up the innovation-decision process for individuals by sponsoring demonstrations of a new idea in a social system. A demonstration can be quite effective in speeding up the diffusion process, especially if the demonstrator is an opinion leader.
* probationary 시험적인 ** vicarious 대리의

24 윗글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
① traits of decision to adopt an innovation
② difficulty in adopting new ideas or methods
③ essential steps of the decision-making process
④ strategies for increasing creativity and innovation
⑤ trials for facilitating the adoption of an innovation

25 윗글의 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
    (A) 			  (B)
① partial 		criticizing
② partial 		sponsoring
③ regular 		identifying
④ regular 		remembering
⑤ voluntary		understanding


[26~28] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
While visiting relatives with her husband in Boston for several weeks, Ngina Githongo, a twenty-three-year-old woman from Limuru, Kenya, was rushed to a local hospital for an emergency appendectomy. On the morning after the operation, the nurse brought her a typical American breakfast consisting of two poached eggs, lightly buttered toast, and orange juice. When the nurse returned 35 minutes later, she noticed that Ngina had eaten everything except the two eggs. They were placed intentionally on the menu to ensure that she received an adequate amount of protein needed for a speedy recovery. The nurse commented that Ngina should eat her eggs if she wanted to leave the hospital as quickly as possible. Looking somewhat surprised, Ngina told the nurse, “Oh, I could never eat the eggs of a chicken!” After giving Ngina a less than friendly glare, the nurse picked up the breakfast tray and left the room. Clearly, the nurse was annoyed with Ngina for being either ungrateful for the food or too simple-minded to know that she needed a high-protein diet. But she was neither ungrateful nor simple-minded. Rather, she was sticking to a widely held food taboo among the Kikuyu of East Africa. Kikuyu females grow up believing that they will be infertile if they ever eat the egg of a chicken. Moreover, they believe this every bit as strongly as many Americans believe that bad things will happen to them if they sleep on the thirteenth floor of a hotel. The nurse’s response was unprofessional. Rather than being offended, she should have learned why Ngina did not eat the chicken eggs. Even though the nurse would not have shared Ngina’s belief that chicken eggs cause infertility, it is not part of her job description as a nurse to talk patients out of their strongly held beliefs. The nurse’s primary responsibility is to provide the best possible medical care for the patient.

26 주어진 글 (A)에 이어질 내용을 순서에 맞게 배열한 것으로 가장 적절한 것은?
① (B) – (D) – (C) ② (C) – (B) – (D) ③ (C) – (D) – (B)
④ (D) – (B) – (C) ⑤ (D) – (C) – (B)

27 윗글의 밑줄 친 (a)~(e) 중에서 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른 것은?
① (a) 		② (b) 		③ (c) 		④ (d) 		⑤ (e)

28 윗글에 관한 내용으로 적절하지 않은 것은?
① Ngina는 남편과 함께 친척을 방문하고 있었다.
② 간호사는 Ngina가 달걀을 먹지 않은 이유를 몰랐다.
③ Ngina는 감사할 줄 모르는 것은 아니었다.
④ Kikuyu 여성은 달걀을 먹으면 불임이 될 것이라고 믿는다.
⑤ 간호사는 Ngina가 남긴 달걀을 먹도록 쟁반을 두고 나갔다.


Mini Test 2강
01 다음 글의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것은?
Dear Mr. Brown, On August 23, I purchased a sports coat in your men’s department for $99.95 plus tax. After taking the coat home, I decided I did not particularly like the fabric and attempted to return the purchase on August 30. Much to my surprise, the manager refused to accept the return. I now understand your company has a five-day return policy. I was not aware of your store’s policy at the time of this purchase, nor had I had any occasion to inquire about your policy any of the other times in the past when I purchased goods at your store. Because I have been a faithful customer for several years, I believe an exception should be made in this instance, and I ask that my money in the amount of $107 be returned immediately. Thank you, and I look forward to hearing from you within the next two weeks and receiving a check for $107. Sincerely, Jake Blackwell

① 의류 맞춤 제작을 의뢰하려고
② 새로운 상품의 입고를 안내하려고
③ 구매 상품에 대한 환불을 요구하려고
④ 환불 가능한 품목에 관해 문의하려고
⑤ 구매 시 발생한 계산상의 착오에 대해 항의하려고


02 다음 글의 상황에 나타난 분위기로 가장 적절한 것은?
A bell chimed in the building: “Ting ting ting.” That’s how Billy Deal described it. And there was an unintelligible announcement. He thought that the store was closing so he looked at his watch. It was 8:05 p.m. Yes, it must be a closing announcement, he thought. But then a strange thing happened. A young man on a forklift jumped off the vehicle and cried, “My God, it’s a fire!” And he took off running. Billy looked around. He couldn’t see what the young man was getting excited about. There was nothing. But suddenly some people ran through the fire door and yelled, “Get outta here! There’s a fire!” Billy peered through that door, that fireproof barricade, toward the west side of the store, and he saw a big cloud of smoke in the center of the space. He ran toward the south fire door searching for Ada and Matthew, and when he got there the cloud behind him had turned into a wall, a wall of very black smoke.
* forklift 지게차(들어 올리는 장치)

① festive and exciting
② urgent and pressing
③ monotonous and boring
④ pleasant and welcoming
⑤ adventurous and thrilling


03 다음 글의 요지로 가장 적절한 것은?
Whenever we buy the latest lotion, we assume that people who make it have only good intentions in mind. We assume that our governments regulate cosmetic makers and demand vigorous safety testing. We assume that cosmetic makers consciously avoid making products that contain ingredients with questionable safety records. Perhaps it is time to stop assuming anything. The chemical industry works nonstop. The amount of synthetic chemicals in use all over the world has increased twofold over the last ten years. Today, we have more than 100,000 chemicals in use in different areas of our lives, and less than 5 percent of these chemicals have been thoroughly tested for their long-term impact on human health. Even proven toxins, such as lead and mercury, were presumed innocent for years ― until dozens of well-documented cases of serious adverse health effects piled up, thus prohibiting the use of these chemicals in paints, household items, and cosmetics.
* synthetic 합성한, 인조의 ** mercury 수은

① 화학 물질의 유해성에 대한 전문가들의 의견이 엇갈린다.
② 철저한 검증을 거치지 않은 화학 물질의 사용이 넘쳐난다.
③ 화학 물질 사용으로 발생한 소비자의 피해는 구제가 어렵다.
④ 무해하다고 알려진 화학 물질에 대한 근거 자료가 빈약하다.
⑤ 생활 제품에 사용된 화학 물질을 표기하는 규정이 필요하다.


04 다음 글에서 필자가 주장하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은?
Slow ageing seeks to redefine ageing as a positive growth experience, rather than one linked with decrepitude, degeneration and decline. The anti-ageing movement generally seeks to position ‘getting old’ as something to be avoided at all costs. It feeds on people’s fears and typically doesn’t provide real solutions. This is unrealistic and unnecessary. We want to slow ageing, not fear it. Attitude is the single most important factor in healthy ageing. A positive attitude drives healthy behaviour and gives us control over our lives. It can more than compensate for a number of other things that may be failing. Ageing needs to be re-positioned as an experience of value, not only for ourselves as individuals, but for our society. It is possible to LOVE the ageing process, to re-frame ageing as a positive experience and take control so we age with pleasure, resilience and growth.
* decrepitude 노쇠, 노후 ** resilience 회복

① 노화를 예방하는 효과적인 방법이 개발되어야 한다.
② 노화를 늦추기 위해서는 생활 습관을 바꾸어야 한다.
③ 항노화 제품은 전문가의 조언을 받고 사용해야 한다.
④ 노화를 긍정적인 경험으로 받아들이는 태도를 가져야 한다.
⑤ 정신 건강을 유지하려면 신체적 건강이 뒷받침되어야 한다.


05 다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
Youths, particularly those completing college degrees, are increasingly pressured to undertake unpaid internships. In a book suggestively entitled “Intern Nation: How to Earn Nothing and Learn Little in the Brave New Economy”, Ross Perlin reports that the percentage of college graduates doing internships has tripled in less than two decades (from 17 percent in 1992 to 50 percent in 2008), and that this is a mass labour exploitation that, in the USA, saves firms more than $600 million annually. In Canada, Andrew Langille, a lawyer who does research on the topic, contends that unpaid internships are replacing entry-level jobs, that they rarely lead to permanent work, and that most of them (95% in the case of Ontario) are exploitative and illegal because interns are doing work typically performed by paid employees. In the context of the current economic recession and high unemployment rates, young graduates are forced to compete with each other and improve their resume in order to gain an advantage in the job market.

① Paid Internships Lead to Better Job Prospects
② Making the Most of Your Internship Experience
③ Internships: A Solution to Youth Unemployment
④ An Unpaid Internship: A Case of Labour Exploitation
⑤ Guidelines for Writing an Effective Internship Report


06 다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
Higher density living in cities means that fewer people have their own garden spaces and that gardens in modern homes are constantly becoming smaller. This is one reason for the importance of maintaining public gardens and integrating garden spaces into new developments. Many of the benefits provided by gardens are available for all to enjoy in public gardens and parks and these venues are often the scene of weddings, parties, and family get-togethers of all sorts. Public gardens provide us with opportunities for recreation, contemplation, education, and inspiration. Their importance to the community and to the environment cannot be overstated and will only grow as higher density living deprives more people of private garden spaces. Whether it’s as a venue to socialise with friends, play sport, practise yoga, meditate, picnic, explore, play, or learn about the natural world, your local park has much to offer, even if you do have your own garden.
* venue (행위의) 장소, 개최지

① the influence of increasing city population
② issues surrounding urban landscape planning
③ ways to make appropriate use of public property
④ the significance of local public gardens in dense cities
⑤ why private gardens are preferred over public gardens


07 다음 도표의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
The above graph shows the percentage of children in the U.S. who were covered by health insurance at any point during 2014, by family income. Children were considered to be covered by health insurance if they had public or private coverage at any time during the year. In 2014, 96.2 percent of children living in families with incomes of $75,000 or more had insurance coverage. In contrast, only 91.9 percent of children in families with incomes under $50,000 were covered. As family income went up, coverage by public insurance went down, and coverage by private insurance went up. In families with incomes of $75,000 or more, 19.6 percent of children had public insurance.


08 passenger pigeon에 관한 다음 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
Scientists estimate that passenger pigeons in North America were the most abundant bird species on Earth, approximately 5 billion birds, before the arrival of the Europeans. The pigeons lived in enormous flocks; the largest flock, of 2 billion birds, darkened the sky for several days as it flew overhead. Up to 100 nests were built in a single tree. Because they lived so close together and were slow flyers, passenger pigeons were extremely easy to hunt. Pigeon meat was so cheap that it was fed to pigs and slaves; the meat also became popular in large cities. Although everyone could see that the population was declining, no one thought that the birds were at risk for extinction because no one anticipated that as their numbers fell, the pigeons would stop breeding. Scientists now think that the pigeons’ mating instinct was triggered by the presence of a great flock. As the flocks were decimated, so was the birds’ desire to reproduce. The last remaining flock, approximately 250,000 birds, was killed by sport hunters in a single day in 1896. The very last passenger pigeon died in captivity in 1914.
* decimate 대량으로 죽이다

① 한때 50억 마리 정도가 있었다고 추산된다.
② 거대한 무리를 지어 살았다.
③ 나는 속도가 빨라 사냥하기가 어려웠다.
④ 돼지의 먹이로 이용되었다.
⑤ 큰 무리의 존재 때문에 짝짓기 본능이 유발되었다고 과학자들은 생각한다.


09 Fresno Library Guild Membership에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하는 것은?
Fresno Library Guild Membership Join us as we celebrate this 50 Year Tradition! The Fresno Library Guild is a group of community members who annually support the Library to enhance the shelves and services. The Guild: • Operates The Book Cellar, one of the Fresno’s greatest bookstores • Organizes community programs like Author Talks and The Summer Reading Program Guild Member Benefits: • 10% discount at The Book Cellar • Monthly Newsletter by email • Book Purchase Requests in the Library Membership Fee: • Individual: $10 (annual) • Family: $20 (annual) • Lifetime: $100 Frequently Asked Questions: • Am I automatically a Guild Member if I have a library card? NO • Do my overdue fines contribute to the Library Guild? NO • Do I have to be a Fresno resident to be a Guild Member? NO If you are interested in becoming a member, please fill out the application and email to: info@fresnolibguild.org.

① Fresno의 모든 서점에서 10% 할인을 받는다.
② 개인 회원의 회비는 한 달에 10달러이다.
③ 도서관 카드가 있으면 자동으로 회원이 된다.
④ Fresno 거주민이 아니어도 회원이 될 수 있다.
⑤ 회원 가입 신청서는 도서관에 방문하여 제출해야 한다.


10 Christmas Card Design Contest에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
Christmas Card Design Contest Castica Travel is looking for artwork to adorn its 2018 Christmas card. All people traveling with Castica in 2018 are invited to submit a bright and colorful piece of artwork. PRIZE: 1st place:$200 off your Castica Travel trip. Design featured on the 2018 Castica Christmas card. Recognition in the Castica Travel e-newsletter. 2nd place: $100 off your Castica Travel trip. Recognition in the Castica Travel e-newsletter. RULES: • Designs must be original. • Extra points will be awarded for involving your trip destination or the Castica Travel logo. • Designs must be submitted via email to info@casticatravel.com by midnight on October 31, 2018. • Please include your name and Trip ID with your entry. • Winners will be notified only by email on November 7, 2018. • By submitting a design, you are allowing the future unconditional use of the design(s) by Castica Travel.

① 2018년에 Castica를 이용한 여행객이 참가할 수 있다.
② 수상자에게는 여행 경비를 할인해 준다.
③ 작품에 여행사의 로고가 포함되면 가산점이 부여된다.
④ 제출 마감은 2018년 10월 31일 자정까지이다.
⑤ 수상자에게는 전화로 개별 통보된다.


11 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은 것은?
The external triggers of depressed mood can be like tigers hiding in the grass: You may hardly be aware of their effect on your mood because you’re unaware of them or you’ve become used to them. Or maybe you don’t fully appreciate their negative effect; you know these problems exist, but you underestimate their negative impact on you. Or you may be very aware of your depressed feelings, but what is causing them may not be nearly so obvious. And some external triggers can simply be subtle and transitory. It can be easy to be aware that a fight with your spouse or a poor performance review at work got you down, but much harder to see that a scratch on a new piece of furniture or an unkind comment by a close friend really got to you. Also, a trigger may not have occurred just now, but instead may be caused by thinking back to a past negative event.
* transitory 일시적인


12 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 어법상 틀린 것은?
After all the work you have gone through writing it, you may feel “married” to the first draft of your paper. However, revision is one of the most important steps in ensuring your paper’s success. Although unpracticed writers often think of revision as little more than making sure all the i’s are dotted and t’s are crossed, it is much more than that. Revising is reseeing the essay, looking at it from other perspectives, trying always to align your view with the one that will be held by your audience. Research indicates that we are actually revising all the time, in every phase of the writing process, as we reread phrases, rethink the placement of an item in an outline, or test a new topic sentence for a paragraph. Subjecting your entire hard-fought draft to cold, objective scrutiny is one of the toughest activities to master, but it is absolutely necessary. You have to ensure that you have said everything that needs to be said clearly and logically. One confusing passage will deflect the reader’s attention from where you want it to be.


13 밑줄 친 he[him]가 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른 것은?
Jim believes that he has been a very good and caring brother to Jacob. Throughout their growing up, Jim, as the older brother, has looked out for Jacob and believes he has “been there” for his brother each and every time he was asked to help. Now he asks Jacob to loan him $1,000 until payday so that Jim can pay his mortgage on time following a major and unexpected car expense. Jacob says he wishes he could help, but he and his wife, Jane, have decided that they will not loan money to friends or relatives as a matter of policy. Jacob is apologetic but firm that he cannot help. Jim immediately feels crushed by Jacob’s statement, angry and confused that Jacob could let him down when he really has done so much for him. As he hangs up the phone, he feels almost out of breath, his heart is pounding, and he is suffused with feelings of disappointment and intense anger at his brother.


14 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
If the dream you had last night perfectly predicted something unusual that actually happened today, put it in proper context. How many dreams have you had in your lifetime that failed to predict events accurately? You also have to think of all the other people on Earth who had a dream last night that didn’t come true. The odds are that somebody’s dream would hit the mark just by chance. It’s like the lottery: the odds of winning may be low, but somebody does win. So, if billions of people are having dreams every night, shouldn’t it be expected that some of them will “come true” just by chance? If millions of people buy lottery tickets, don’t we expect that someone out of the crowd will pick the winning numbers? If we want to think clearly, we have to accept the fact that coincidences happen all the time. In isolation, many of them can seem eerie and supernatural. Placed into proper context, however, they usually seem inevitable more than anything else.
* eerie 괴상한
① conflicts
② tragedies
③ coincidences
④ interchanges
⑤ misunderstandings



15 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
A good image of what we mean by decision making is of a person pausing at a fork in the road, and then choosing one path — to reach a desired goal or to avoid an unpleasant outcome. The most important evolutionary situations that selected our basic decision-making capacities probably involved physical approach or avoidance — which waterhole, field, fruit tree, cave, stranger, mate, and so forth, to approach and which to avoid. In prehistoric times, bad decisions were punished in a dramatic manner; as the philosopher Willard van Orman Quine commented, “Creatures inveterately wrong in their inductions have a pathetic but praiseworthy tendency to die before reproducing their kind.” In other words, animals, including humans, that make bad predictions of the future and consequently bad decisions tend to die before they can pass their genes on to the next generation; this is one reason that we, and other animals, are good at making survival decisions.
* inveterately 만성적으로 ** pathetic 불쌍한

① often choose to follow others
② are unreliable decision makers
③ want to try every option available
④ tend to prefer uncertain situations
⑤ are good at making survival decisions


16 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
The advantages of personal contact include experiences we can’t consciously register. In a shared space, people plug into what the psychologist Daniel Goleman has called “neural WiFi,” “a feedback loop that crosses the skin-and-skull barrier between bodies.” When scientists videotape conversations and slow them down to watch frame by frame, they detect synchronies between nonverbal elements — a shared rhythm very much like the beat that guides an improvisation in jazz. The movements themselves are coordinated to within a fraction of a second — our brains are taking in data on the order of milli- or microseconds. But conscious processing of information happens in the comparatively sluggish scale of seconds. When two people talk to each other, writes Goleman, “our own thoughts can’t possibly track the complexity of the dance.”
* synchrony 동시성 ** improvisation 즉흥 연주 *** sluggish 느린

① we can’t consciously register
② small sensitivity easily leads to
③ many pairs are unlikely to have
④ our brain can’t repeat over and over
⑤ both verbal and nonverbal factors affect


17 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
In 2003, on their Showtime television series, the team of magicians, Penn & Teller, demonstrated how bottled water marketing itself impacts not only consumers’ expectations but their actual perceptions of how water tastes. In a hilarious segment, the guys took over a trendy California restaurant, installing their own made-up “water steward,” a fake employee who visited each table and presented diners with a menu of exotic and refreshing-sounding waters from around the world. What patrons didn’t know was that all of the bottles had been filled from the same hose out back behind the restaurant. Based on the images on the made-up labels, the prices of the waters, and the stories told by the water steward, diners actually believed they could taste differences among the various waters and were shocked to finally learn that all of the waters were nothing more than Los Angeles tap water.
* hilarious 아주 재미있는

① would get used to the taste of local tap water
② could predict the prices for premium products
③ could taste differences among the various waters
④ did not appreciably prefer expensive unproven samples
⑤ shouldn’t be concerned about the safety of water bottles


18 다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장은?
The sound of a bat, like the sound of a club or a racquet, has a strong psychological influence on a player. A ball impacting a wood bat makes a nice “crack” sound when hit properly, while a hollow bat “pings” like a bell. Some players prefer to play in wood bat leagues simply because the crack of the bat sounds more like the real thing, or more like the bat used by a Major League player. Similarly, professional tennis players are very fussy about the sound of the shot. About half of them use string dampeners to change the ping to a thud, and the other half don’t, depending on what they are accustomed to hearing. It makes no difference to the performance of the racquet, but if the shot sounds “wrong” then it won’t “feel” right.


19 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Experimental bias refers to the researchers’ possible bias toward the expected or hypothesized results, a violation of the objectivity required in experimental research. Control of this threat to validity can be addressed by using an experimenter who is unaware of the anticipated results to administer the intervention(s) or treatment. Similarly, attitudinal effect refers to the possible perception by either group that they may be receiving special attention, which may affect the results of the study. Double-blind studies address both researcher bias and attitudinal effect. For example, if researchers were interested in the effect of a drug on the hyperactivity The assistants could be instructed to give an unmarked pill to each participant each day and to record data relative to the participant’s behavior. The participants would not know if they were assigned to the experimental or control conditions either. Thus, neither the researcher’s bias nor the attitudinal effect of participants could influence the outcome of the study. of children, they could avoid experimental bias by using research assistants who were not privy to the identity of the experimental or control group members.
* hyperactivity 과잉 행동 ** privy 알고 있는

① (A) – (C) – (B) ② (B) – (A) – (C) ③ (B) – (C) – (A)
④ (C) – (A) – (B) ⑤ (C) – (B) – (A)


20 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Flagship species are charismatic animals that tend to evoke emotional responses including affection and sympathy, and thus are likely to arouse public support for their conservation. While biodiversity and ecosystem protection can be vague concepts that are not easy to promote for public awareness and support, these flagship species are readily identifiable animals whose lives, difficulties, and survival resonate with the general public. Unlike ecologically significant classifications like “keystone” and “umbrella,” flagship species are not necessarily critical to an ecosystem’s function. Instead, their importance is defined by their appeal to human audiences. Because flagship species are not always ecologically vital, some experts believe that funding dedicated to their conservation and protection would be better allocated to species that have potentially more significant impacts on their ecosystems. The utilization of flagship species can also present a challenge to conservation as a whole, particularly if a flagship species becomes extinct or extirpated from part of its range where conservation strategies had been in place. This could lead to damaged attitudes and involvement of local people, conservationists, and the general public that supports speciesspecific conservation campaigns.
* resonate 반향을 불러일으키다 ** extirpate 절멸하다


21 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳을 고르시오.
Sometimes different species adopt the same camouflage to suit a specific environment. For example, floating masses of Sargassum seaweed support a whole community of animals that drift along with the weed in the Atlantic Ocean. Within the confines of their seaweed home, kept afloat by numerous gas-filled bladders, the animal residents must live, mate, feed, and avoid being eaten. There are no holes to hide in and no rocks to slip underneath, so most of the inhabitants are camouflaged to resemble the seaweed in color and shape. As a result, animals as varied as shrimps, crabs, and fishes all wear the same colors, and are mostly yellow and brown. The speckled color and slow movements of a filefish, for instance, help it blend in as it hunts for worms. Irregular seaweedlike skin flaps on the body and fins of the Sargassum fish make an excellent disguise.


22 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳을 고르시오.
According to Tolstoy, artistic creations are art only if they serve brotherhood in uniting the people of the world. Otherwise, they do not qualify as art. On these grounds, he asserts that the artists, whose works serve anything but that, are counterfeit artists, and are thus disqualified. Even from this perspective, one would think that at least Symphony No. 9 from Beethoven should qualify, because it was composed exactly for the brotherhood of humans. And probably he did not approve of Shakespeare’s great writings because his works take no position for or against anything. He never tries to promote or discourage any idea or ideology, or tries to teach anything to anyone, but rather, reflects the nature of interaction among humans in different realms of tragedy, history and comedy. And probably this is one of the material elements that augments the beauty in his writings. But according to Tolstoy, his writings do not even qualify as art, and one after another, he denounces and dismisses almost everything that we consider to be great art.


23 다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
In October 2014 three researchers won the Nobel Prize in Physics for their work on LEDs (light-emitting diodes). In announcing the award, the Swedish Academy of Sciences noted that “replacing light bulbs and fluorescent tubes with LEDs will lead to a very great reduction of electricity requirements for lighting.” This statement triggered a lively debate about the “rebound” effect — the increase in consumption of energy services that often occurs as new and efficient technologies are adopted. In response, David Goldstein from the Natural Resources Defense Council retorted that good energy-efficiency policy can deliver the opposite of rebound, where a little energy efficiency leads to more and more reductions in usage and pollution. Consider the state of California, where vigorous energy-efficiency policies have been in place for decades, resulting in actual reductions of energy use that are far larger than a simple projection of savings. Thus, the overall goal of energy efficiency — to use energy more productively and cleanly — has not lost its effect by the rebound effect.
* fluorescent tube 형광등 ** retort 반박하다

      (A) 		   (B)
① improving 		lowering
② improving		promoting
③ sacrificing 		lowering
④ sacrificing		stabilizing
⑤ assessing 		promoting


[24~25] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
Our 21st century technologies, such as the World Wide Web, have profound implications for the way we define the words in our language. In pre-Internet times, the hard copy dictionary always served as the final authority for what a word means and how it is used. The authors of dictionaries (lexicographers) traditionally have arrived at their definitions by carefully analyzing as many examples as possible of how a particular word is used. While some complex words found in any standard desk dictionary can have as many as nine or ten possible uses, even these definitions fail to cover all possible usages. According to lexicographer Erin McKean, a recent study showed that in a set of randomly chosen passages from modern fiction, 13 percent of the nouns, verbs, and adjectives were used in ways not found in large desk dictionaries. The major shortcoming of the traditional dictionary is that there is limited space available to give only a sampling of how words are used. There are, in other words, many more contemporary usages that never make it into a standard dictionary because of the limitations of physical space. The beauty of the Internet, however, is that there are virtually no space limitations. As a result, it is possible for 21st century lexicographers to define words by including every conceivable example of the word’s use. These examples could be generated electronically not only from literature, nonfiction writing, and newspapers, but also from websites, blogs, and social networking sites. In fact, this is what the online dictionary called http://www.wordnik. com/ is currently doing.
* lexicographer 사전 편찬자

24 윗글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
① Who Invented the First Dictionary?
② A Dictionary as a Source of Knowledge
③ The Internet Is Changing the Dictionary
④ Learn Vocabulary in Context Without a Dictionary
⑤ The Online Dictionary for Writing: A Solution or a Problem?

25 윗글의 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
      (A) 		  (B)
① in contrast 		however
② in contrast 		otherwise
③ for example 		likewise
④ in other words	likewise
⑤ in other words 	however



[26~28] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
We would like to share a story of a mildly autistic high school student-manager at the Greece Athena High School in Rochester, New York, named Jason McElwain, or J-Mac as he is popularly known. You may have heard about Jason’s story as he was a 2006 ESPY Award winner in the “Best Moment” category. His achievement on the basketball court beat out Kobe Bryant’s 81-point performance with the Lakers earlier that season. So what makes McElwain’s story so interesting? Let’s start with J-Mac’s big night on the court. It was “Senior Night” on February 15, 2006. McElwain was never quite good enough to make the basketball team but he wanted to be a part of the team anyway. As such, this autistic boy became the student-manager. Still, he always wanted to play in a real game with his teammates. On the day of “Senior Night” Jason’s coach, Jim Johnson, informed the student-manager that he would be allowed to wear the basketball uniform and sit on the bench as a player. And if the moment presented itself, he said, he would get Jason into the game. Although his coach could not promise Jason that he would actually play in the game, he remained optimistic. Word spread throughout the campus and before long, the popular student had the entire student body at Greece Athena behind him. At game time, the stands were packed with students — many of whom had cut-outs of McElwain’s face on Popsicle sticks and posters bearing Jason’s name — as well as his family and community members. Everything was working in J-Mac’s favor as Athena built a big lead over their opponent, the Spencerport Rangers. With about four minutes remaining in the game, McElwain’s coach signaled for him to go in (to the game). The fans were excited. After missing his first shot but still receiving support from his teammates and fans, McElwain makes a three-point shot. The crowd goes absolutely fanatical. Another possession and another three-pointer by Jason. Those assembled in the gym could hardly contain themselves. Jason would go on to make 6 of 10 three-point shots and 7 for 13 in all during his four minutes of play. When the final buzzer sounded, the Athena spectators stormed the court and carried Jason on their collective shoulders.
* autistic 자폐증의

26 윗글의 마지막 단락에 나타난 분위기로 가장 적절한 것은?
① tense and urgent
② solemn and sacred
③ sad and depressing
④ exciting and festive
⑤ boring and monotonous

27 밑줄 친 (a)∼(e) 중에서 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른 것은?
① (a) 		② (b) 		③ (c) 		④ (d) 		⑤ (e)

28 윗글의 Jason에 관한 내용으로 적절하지 않은 것은?
① 2006년 ESPY ‘최고의 순간’ 부문 수상자였다.
② 농구팀 선수가 될 만큼 농구를 아주 잘하지는 못했다.
③ 학생들, 가족, 동네 사람들의 응원을 받았다.
④ 시합 종료까지 4분 정도 남았을 때 시합에 투입되었다.
⑤ 시도했던 모든 슛이 득점으로 이어졌다.
Mini Test 3강

01 다음 글의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것은?
Dear Committee Members, You know that last year your sharing the spirit of this season resulted in 2,765 children receiving a Christmas gift. And this year we are aiming to make sure that 3,500 children in our area are greeted with a surprise gift on that special day. This year on December 5, 4:30 p.m., at Riverdale Preschool, all of us will bring together the gifts we have collected, and we will all wrap gifts and divide them for distribution by the appointed elves. As usual, this will be a very merry workshop experience and celebration for all of us. Barry McCullom will lead the music, and La Petite, a superb caterer, is supplying box lunches for all of us. We look forward to seeing you again this year for this very special time of celebration. Sincerely, Patti Reeves
* caterer (행사의) 음식 공급업체

① 기부금 사용 내역을 보고하려고
② 유치원 운영 위원으로 위촉하려고
③ 신제품 출시 기념행사를 홍보하려고
④ 불우 아동 지원 기금 후원에 감사하려고
⑤ 선물 준비 모임에 참석할 것을 권유하려고


02 다음 글에 드러난 Billy의 심경으로 가장 적절한 것은?
As they went into the theatre, Billy said, “It’s a ballet about Charles Lamb’s policeman brother by a guy called Leo Debility.” Laura looked puzzled for a moment. Then her eyes sparkled and she burst into laughter. “Coppelia by Leo Delibes. You are a bit stupid, aren’t you?” “At last you’ve realized it,” he grinned. The theatre lights dimmed, the orchestra struck up and they sat fascinated by Delibes’ music and the superb choreography of the visiting Sadler’s Wells company. From time to time, Billy glanced at Laura’s smiling face as she followed every movement of the dancers and took in every nuance of the music. A shiver of joy ran down his spine and he felt a bliss he had never known. If only time could stand still. Making this girl by my side happy, he thought, will be my life’s ambition.
* choreography 안무

① nervous and lonely
② delighted and happy
③ jealous and annoyed
④ scared and frightened
⑤ disappointed and depressed


03 다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
The demand for art fluctuates according to the state of the economy. When economic growth is strong, galleries can be full of buyers, but these soon disappear when economic times are hard. During the recession in the early 1990s, one commentator reported that ‘buyers had gone into hibernation’ and many art galleries were forced out of business. A major factor in this is the high fixed costs that galleries face, which can be easily accommodated when sales are strong. But the point about fixed costs is that they cannot be changed in the short term. If demand falls suddenly, they can force a gallery into bankruptcy since they must still be paid even when there are few or no customers. Galleries are located in prime locations and so their major fixed costs are rent and property taxes. In addition, galleries typically produce three or four catalogues a year, with a typical cost of US$10,000 per edition.
* hibernation 동면

① Solutions for Art Gallery Problems
② Common Costs When Starting an Art Gallery
③ Art Galleries Are Trying to Reduce Fixed Costs
④ Fixed Costs for a Business: Difficult to Calculate
⑤ High Fixed Costs: A Risk Factor for Art Galleries


04 다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
Readers have a right to expect that the quotations used in news stories will fairly depict the range of viewpoints on the subject. Unbiased reporters strive to meet that standard. However, biased reporters try to advance their own personal opinions. One way is to include numerous strong quotations on their side of the issue and only one or two, preferably weak, quotations on the other side. A more blatant approach is to include no opposing quotations at all and thus create the impression that no responsible person would take the opposing side of the issue. The most dishonest approach is to twist a quotation so that it seems to say something very different. For example, if the quotation were “I initially had some reservations about the program, but after examining it closely I believe it is excellent,” a dishonest reporter might merely say that the person expressed “some reservations” about the program.
* blatant 노골적인, 뻔뻔스러운

① consequences of biased news reporting
② characteristics of biased news headlines
③ biased handling of quotations by reporters
④ the influence of the editor’s bias on editing
⑤ reasons why reporters overuse quotation marks


05 다음 글의 요지로 가장 적절한 것은?
Imagine a toddler going to his mother, tugging on her sleeve, and when he gets her attention saying, “I need you to watch me so I can do this all by myself.” The mother chuckles inwardly and then watches her son build a toy tower. Perhaps you, too, smiled at the child’s apparent selfcontradiction: How can the child do it “all by myself” and need someone to be part of the doing? Because autonomy is achieved only within relationship, Winnicott called it “the experience of being alone while someone else is present.” This being alone in the presence of someone else is a pattern that continues throughout life. Adults do not achieve individuation from their parents by walking away and never needing them again but rather by using their parents as a secure base from which to explore. Autonomy is not a negation of needing others but a capacity that arises from that need being met.
* tug on ~을 잡아당기다 ** chuckle 빙그레 웃다 *** negation 부정

① 아이의 창의력은 자율성에 달려있다.
② 부모의 통제가 아이의 자율성을 해친다.
③ 자율성이 일의 효율을 떨어뜨릴 수 있다.
④ 자율성은 다른 사람과의 관계에서 얻어진다.
⑤ 놀이에 대한 아이의 집중도는 자율성에 비례한다.


06 다음 글에서 필자가 주장하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은?
Watch any couple who are getting on well. What do you see? If one leans forward and smiles, so does the other. If one talks in a hushed tone, the other does too. She crosses her legs and folds her arms, so does he. He smiles and shakes his head and, guess what? She does too. The couples aren’t deliberately mimicking each other. It’s just that when people are getting on well with someone else they subconsciously adopt similar non-verbals. Emulating another’s body language and speech patterns is a sure-fire way to deepen your relationships. Subtly adapt your breathing patterns, pace of speech, tone of voice, posture, body language and facial expression to the other person’s. Borrow their words and expressions. This must of course be done skillfully, or they’ll think you are ridiculing them. The last thing you want is to come across as a parrot, but with practice you’ll be able to do it without any hint of mimicry.
* hushed 조용한 ** emulate 모방하다

① 처세술을 익히기보다 자신의 인품이 빛나게 하라.
② 대화 중 상대방의 말이 암시하는 의미를 파악하라.
③ 자신의 몸에 밴 버릇을 잘 살피고 나쁜 것은 고치라.
④ 논쟁할 때 감정에 사로잡히지 말고 조용한 어조로 말하라.
⑤ 잘 지내고 싶은 사람과 비슷하게 말과 행동을 하도록 연습하라.


07 다음 도표의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
The above graph shows the average life expectancy at birth in selected rich nations by 2030. The average life expectancy of women is expected to be higher than that of men in all the countries. The average life expectancy of South Korean women is expected to surpass 90 by 2030. The average life expectancy of Australian men is expected to be 84 by 2030. Of the ten nations, the United States will lag behind the other nine nations in the average life expectancy by 2030 for both men and women.

08 Ezer Weizman에 관한 다음 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
Ezer Weizman, Israel’s seventh President, was born in Tel Aviv in 1924 and was the nephew of Israel’s first President, Chaim Weizmann. Ezer Weizman served as a fighter pilot with the Royal Air Force during World War II. Weizman helped establish what would become the Israel Air Force. He served as a fighter pilot during the War of Independence and was named head of operations of the Air Force in 1950. He became commander in chief of the Israel Air Force in 1958. He retired from the army in 1969 and was elected chairman of the Herut Party in 1971. Weizman was elected president in 1993 and reelected in 1998. In 2000, Weizman resigned as president under pressure due to the public revelation that he failed to declare a substantial sum of money that he received from a friend while serving as an elected official.

① 이스라엘 초대 대통령의 조카였다.
② 제2차 세계대전 중에 전투기 조종사로 복무했다.
③ 1958년에 이스라엘 공군의 총사령관이 되었다.
④ 1971년에 Herut 당의 의장으로 선출되었다.
⑤ 돈과 관련된 비리 때문에 대통령 재선에 실패했다.


09 2018 Short, Short Story Writing Contest에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은?
2018 Short, Short Story Writing Contest. The California Writers Club (CWC), Sacramento Branch, is excited to announce the 2018 Short, Short Story Writing Contest. The contest is open to everybody. The category is fiction, and the maximum length is 750 words. All entries are due postmarked by April 6. Awards. • First Place: $100 / Second Place: $50 / Third Place: $25
• Winning stories will be published in a special 2018 edition of the Write On! newsletter. Entry Fees. • $10.00 per entry. Writers may submit multiple entries. Submissions. • Four copies of each entry submission and one cover sheet must be mailed with payment to Contest Chair at the address below. • The cover sheet for each submission must include story title, author’s name, address, phone number, and email address. The cover sheet is the only place where the author’s name is to appear. Manuscripts. • Entries must be typewritten in 12-point Times New Roman font, using standard 1〃margins with page numbers in the upper right-hand corner and printed on one side of paper only. Send Submissions to: CWC, Sacramento Branch. P.O. Box 4706. El Dorado Hills, CA 95762

① 출품되는 작품에는 길이의 제한이 있다.
② 출품작당 10달러의 참가비를 내야 한다.
③ 각 출품작은 5부씩 우편으로 제출해야 한다.
④ 겉표지 이외의 부분에 저자의 이름을 기록해서는 안 된다.
⑤ 원고의 오른쪽 상단 구석에 쪽 번호를 넣고 단면으로 인쇄해야 한다.


10 Auditions for the production of ‘The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee’에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치 하는 것은?
Auditions for the production of The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee. This musical centers on an unusual group of six adolescents (played by adults) who compete for the spelling championship of a lifetime. They are joined by three equally odd “adults” with issues of their own. Everyone of college age and above and actors of any ethnicity are welcome to audition. AUDITION INFORMATION. DATES: Wed, August 15th with callbacks on Fri, August 17th. TIME: 6:00 p.m. WHERE: Mt. San Jacinto College Lab Theater. WHAT: • Song: Please prepare a song that best shows your voice. You may bring sheet music, as an accompanist will be provided, but feel free to bring a CD (without vocals) or your own accompanist. • Monologue: You will also need to present a monologue (2-minute maximum) from a play or musical of your choosing. Monologues in the style of the show are encouraged. For example, humor, teenage anxiety, and simple joy may be themes illustrated in the actor’s monologue. You may be asked to read from the script. Come prepared to dance, wearing loose clothing and appropriate shoes (no sandals).
① 대회에 참가한 어른들의 이야기가 중심인 작품의 오디션이다.
② 연령이나 민족적 배경에 상관없이 누구나 참가할 수 있다.
③ 참가자는 보컬 부분이 들어가 있는 CD를 가져와도 좋다.
④ 참가자 자신이 선택한 독백 장면을 공연해야 한다.
⑤ 춤을 추기 위해 헐렁한 옷을 입고 샌들을 신고 와야 한다.


11 다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 어법상 틀린 것은?
Hypotheses that have passed many supportive tests are often called theories. A theory is an explanation that summarizes a hypothesis or a set of hypotheses and has been supported with repeated testing. Theories have a great deal more supportive testing behind them than do hypotheses. Suppose your new hypothesis is “wooden objects burn.” You will find this hypothesis more satisfactory since all of the wooden objects you try will burn. You can see from this example that the hypothesis does not become what we think of as a “fact” but rather a tentatively accepted theory, which must undergo continuous testing and possible adjustments. Even if your theory seems successful, you might be ignoring other types of combustible materials, such as a large stack of old car tires, objects made of fabric or paper, or perhaps containers of petroleum. You can see that even though you are quite satisfied with your theory because it does the job you want it to do, you actually do not have a complete statement on all the properties that make objects burn.


12 밑줄 친 부분이 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른 것은?
Hiding behaviors are common among people with dementia. Hiding is an attempt to safeguard belongings by placing them in “secret places.” Often, however, the person with dementia forgets where she placed important possessions. Jan’s seventy-five-year-old mother, Rita, started showing signs of cognitive decline about a year before Jan brought her into the university health center for an evaluation. Her mother wasn’t driving anymore and therefore requested that Jan take her to the bank every three or four days. Rita continually explained to Jan that she wanted to have cash on her “in case of an emergency,” and she withdrew hundreds of dollars at a time. Jan had no idea what Rita did with the money. Occasionally, Rita wrongly accused Jan of stealing cash from her, which greatly pained Jan. When Rita entered a nursing home several months later and Jan cleared out her house, she wondered whether she would come across her mother’s money but never did. Jan had no idea what happened to the tens of thousands of dollars that Rita likely withdrew over time and theorized that she might have hidden the cash too well somewhere in the house.
* dementia 치매


13 (A), (B), (C)의 각 네모 안에서 문맥에 맞는 낱말로 가장 적절한 것은?
Various efforts are being made to halt desertification in the sandy lands, including planting of trees as shelter belts to stop the wind, the growing of crops that tolerate extreme arid sandy conditions, and restrictions on grazing. Many of the trees have died — and in any case they are proving (A) [effective / ineffective] in stopping the movement of mobile dunes. Yuanchun Shi, former President of China Agricultural University, suggests another solution, namely that ‘over-cultivation, grazing and logging must be (B) [permitted / restrained] in the source area of desertification. Grazing should be forbidden in those seriously degenerated and desertified grasslands... The purpose of stopping cultivation and grazing is to activate the ecosystem’s selfrepair function, so that vegetation cover and soil conditions can be improved on a large scale’. In a few exceptional cases, the (C) [inclusion / exclusion] of grazing has resulted in grassland regeneration; however, this outcome appears to be the exception rather than the rule. Where soil conditions are less favourable, keeping the animals away has not resulted in significant recovery.
* desertification 사막화 ** arid 매우 건조한 *** dune 모래 언덕

     (A) 	   (B) 		   (C)
① effective 	permitted 	exclusion
② effective 	restrained 	exclusion
③ ineffective	restrained	inclusion
④ ineffective	permitted 	inclusion
⑤ ineffective 	restrained 	exclusion


14 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Learning to grasp objects has an important effect on an infant’s interest in and knowledge about the physical world. First, infants who more actively explore the environment with their hands are also advanced in their ability to perceive object boundaries, noting where one object ends and another begins. We know this because infants at 3 and 4 months who were more actively engaged with teething toys during a pretest phase were more likely to show surprise when two objects moved together than when they moved separately, whereas lessactive object explorers showed the opposite pattern. This suggests that interacting with objects may confer important knowledge of the physical world and how objects should behave. Several researchers have noted that once infants begin to reach for objects, they show increased interest in the world of objects, and such interest could be the basis of later knowledge.
* teething toy 아기가 이가 날 무렵에 입에 물고 노는 고무로 만든 장난감

① classify
② imitate
③ create
④ grasp
⑤ hide


15 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
While being an introvert comes with its challenges, it definitely has its advantages as well. For example, an introvert is far less likely to make a mistake in a social situation, such as inadvertently insulting another person whose opinion is not agreeable. An introvert would enjoy reflecting on their thoughts, and thus would be far less likely to suffer from boredom without outside stimulation. The only risk that you will face as an introvert is that people who do not know you may think that you are aloof or that you think you are better than them. If you learn how to open up just a little bit with your opinions and thoughts, you will be able to thrive in both worlds. You can then stay true to your personality without appearing to be antisocial.
* inadvertently 무심코 ** aloof 쌀쌀한

① be more reflective
② thrive in both worlds
③ stay distant from others
④ reach a mutual agreement
⑤ escape mistakes and boredom


16 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Declining fertility is a wake-up call showing that governments need to do more to support working mothers if they want young women to keep on having enough babies to stave off rapid population aging. But supporting work-family reconciliation policies also matters from the point of view of overall social equality. States that rely on markets to provide care services without providing government subsidies are counting on the availability of a large cohort of workers who will provide care for low pay. But those who are getting paid the least also have children who need to be taken care of, and their care solutions may be quite limited by lack of resources. This can result in children who do not receive excellent care or a great start in life. When countries provide affordable high-quality care to all children, they help to equalize the chances that all children will be cared for well, talked and read to, and given a start that sets them up to flourish emotionally and intellectually.
* stave off (안 좋은 일을) 피하다 ** cohort 집단, 무리

① childcare facilities are forced to meet legal standards
② all the adults in a community take part in child-rearing
③ all kinds of organizations have appropriate day-care centers
④ countries provide affordable high-quality care to all children
⑤ governments offer subsidies to families with two or more children



17 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
The world has made huge investments in the facilities that extract fossil fuels from the ground and burn them — mines, oil wells, power stations, hundreds of thousands of ships and aircraft, a billion motor vehicles. Leaving aside the political lobbying power that such investment can command, there would be a limit to how quickly that much kit could be replaced even if there were perfect substitute technologies to hand that simply needed scaling up. If the world had the capacity to deliver one of the largest nuclear power plants ever built once a week, week in and week out, it would take 20 years to replace the current stock of coal-fired plants (at present, the world builds about three or four nuclear power plants a year, and retires old ones almost as quickly). To replace those coal plants with solar panels at the rate such panels were installed in 2013 would take about a century and a half. That is all before starting on replacing the gas and the oil, the cars, the furnaces and the ships.

① how quickly that much kit could be replaced
② the types of alternative energy that could be used
③ the extent to which powerful countries can participate
④ how much budget could be allocated for sustainable operations
⑤ the number of countries reluctant to do away with fossil fuel facilities


18 다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장을 고르시오.
Historically in the United States, prevention hasn’t been prioritized, and, furthermore, virtually no attention has been paid to fostering a systematic, quality prevention approach. For decades, the national prevention model relied primarily on educating people about health and safety risks, hoping they would magically change their behavior. As well intended as educational efforts are, they can never be very effective without simultaneously changing home and community environments, social norms, policies, and institutions. Establishing a broader view — “beyond brochures,” we might say — is critical. Research has shown it is unrealistic to expect that simply warning people about a danger will be sufficient to help them change their long-standing habits or avoid unhealthy exposures on their own. A quality prevention approach is one in which education is part of a well-designed, sustained, comprehensive effort to broadly improve community environments, social norms, institutional practices, and policies.


19 다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장을 고르시오.
Sport plays many roles in societies around the globe. At the most visible level from a media perspective are events where elite athletes are paid to perform at the highest levels with highly paid coaching staff, and where audiences can pay sizable amounts to witness the spectacle. Here, athleticism, entertainment, and community are key dimensions to the sporting experience. At the other end of the spectrum, there are many events and games, such as weekend children’s sporting competitions with parents and friends watching from the sidelines or training sessions with voluntary coaches. These two extremes illustrate the very diverse roles for sport in society, including physical and mental health-building and personal development, as well as entertainment and community building.


20 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것은?
Anyone who wants to improve his or her health can benefit from the diet simply by following its general guidelines for better nutritional choices. There’s no rigid formula. You don’t have to sign on for a complicated program with steps and levels and layers. At the same time, though, anyone with specific concerns can follow the diet’s more directed recommendations and use it preventively to lower the risk of a specific disease long before any symptoms become apparent. And those hoping to reverse specific disease processes can use the plan in an even more targeted and nuanced fashion. In postmenopausal women, for instance, vitamin D deficiency can lead to osteoporosis and a greater likelihood of fractures, so increasing supplemental and dietary intake of vitamin D will help most women decrease the risk for fractures. But not all women. Differences in genetic makeup mean that not every postmenopausal woman has the same vulnerability. So increasing the amount of vitamin D should not be a blanket recommendation for all women.
① (A) – (C) – (B) ② (B) – (A) – (C) ③ (B) – (C) – (A)
④ (C) – (A) – (B) ⑤ (C) – (B) – (A)


21 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳을 고르시오.
How well can you figure out, navigate, control, and modify an online environment? This is the key question concerning its interactive dimension. The more readily you can immerse yourself into an online domain, the more quickly it becomes an extension of your mind. The more customizable it is, the more you can express your identity, shape your experiences, and feel emotionally invested in that place. A purely informational website page would have little or no interactivity, although even the addition of links between sections of the site enables you to personalize your journey through the information. By contrast, very sophisticated gaming and avatar worlds produce complex interactivity in the many opportunities people have to create visual representations of themselves, to venture through all the lands within the world, and even to construct their own objects and dwellings. The interactive dimension also includes our attitudes toward cyberspace in general: how we feel we can control it, or how it controls us.



22 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장 적절한 곳을 고르시오.
On an unrecorded day in the 1760s, the last Steller’s sea cow died. Before eighteenthcentury human hunters began killing it, this gigantic manatee — up to thirty feet long and covered with thick layers of fat — had lived in the shallow bays of two small islands in the North Pacific, and nowhere else. Its ancestors had once inhabited the seas from Baja California, Mexico, to Kamchatka, Russia — but with climate change and human predation, its numbers had dwindled to several thousand by the middle of the eighteenth century. Despite this decline, on isolated, uninhabited Bering and Copper Islands the last members of the species might have survived indefinitely had a floodtide of empire not suddenly swept them away. Russian explorers discovered the sea cow in 1741, and in less than thirty years the fur traders who followed up on this discovery had hunted the animal to extinction. By the nineteenth century, the descendants of the sea cow’s killers were wondering what animal could have left behind the gigantic bones lying on the shoreline. Even the memory of the sea cow had vanished.
* manatee 바다소 ** predation 포식 *** dwindle 점점 줄어들다


23 다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
Many people in the nineteenth century considered head size a valid measure of intellectual merit. This emphasis on head size was rooted in attempts to scientifically justify colonialism and legitimize racial oppression by white Europeans. Similarly, as sociologist Jerome Karabel shows, prior to the 1920s, admission to Harvard, Princeton, and Yale was based largely on subject tests and demonstrated intellectualism. Yet as Jewish enrollments grew and anti-Semitism increased, definitions of merit shifted. To exclude Jewish students and secure advantages for white Anglo-Saxon Protestants, the emphasis on intellectual prowess gave way to a focus on personal “character,” as demonstrated by applicants’ involvement in sports, extracurricular activities, and perceived “manliness.” This focus on character and well-roundedness persists in college admissions today. Thus, merit is an ever-evolving, moving target that simultaneously shapes and is shaped by power relations in a given society.
* legitimize 합법화하다 ** anti-Semitism 반유대주의 *** prowess 기량, 솜씨

    (A) 			       (B)
① legal 		powerful individuals
② legal 		influential groups
③ personal		academic societies
④ excellent 		influential groups
⑤ excellent		academic societies


[24~25] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
Humans are so averse to feeling that they’re being cheated that they often respond in ways that seemingly make little sense. Behavioral economists ― the economists who actually study what people do as opposed to the kind who simply assume the human mind works like a calculator ― have shown again and again that people reject unfair offers even if it costs them money to do so. The typical experiment uses a task called the ultimatum game. It’s pretty straightforward. One person in a pair is given some money ― say $10. She then has the opportunity to offer some amount of it to her partner. The partner only has two options. He can take what’s offered or refuse to take anything. There’s no room for negotiation; that’s why it’s called the ultimatum game. What typically happens? Many people offer an equal split to the partner, leaving both individuals happy and willing to trust each other in the future. Of course, such decisions drive economists crazy; their basic assumption is that people are rational money maximizers. If you don’t have to share any money and won’t be subject to subsequent punishment for not sharing, why in the world would you share? It only makes you poorer. But if one adopts a more psychological view, splitting the resources begins to make sense; it builds bonds for the long term. As a result, the human mind possesses mechanisms that habitually push a sense of fairness.
* averse to ~을 싫어하는 ** ultimatum game 최후통첩 게임

24 윗글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
① Discovering Fairness: What Is Fair?
② Are Economists Basically Immoral?
③ Basic Factors of Economic Decision-Making
④ Sense of Fairness Governing the Human Mind
⑤ Decision-Making: Always as Rational as You Think

25 윗글의 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
① delaying offers
② trying negotiation
③ maximizing profits
④ abandoning the game
⑤ splitting the resources


[26~28] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
Brandon Cooper, president of an international architectural firm, was putting on a competition to attract the best architects and designers in the world. He told everyone that budget wasn’t an issue. “Send me your building proposal and I am going to choose one person or firm to get the contract.” Brandon had his eyes on 50 or so building designers even though he received thousands of submissions from all over the world. This would be one of the most prized contracts in architectural history. Most designers sent in proposals that were inches thick. One designer, however, sent in a fax with one sentence: “I’ll sleep through the storms.” Brandon called the designer to let him know that his assistant must have made a mistake, because all he got was the one sentence without a proposal. The designer told him there was no mistake. “I sent it to you on purpose.” Brandon was confused but slightly intrigued. The designer went on to explain that he didn’t know how much it would cost to build his design because he would make sure the building was built in the best way possible. He also didn’t know how long it would take because during building projects unexpected events happen all the time. He also told Brandon he wasn’t interested in sending him an inflated resume like all the other designers. He did, however, make him a promise: “I will sleep through the storms.” He went on to explain that when the building was finished he would never worry when the storms hit because of how well he would build the building. He told Brandon that when the storms come he would want to call him to ensure the building would be safe. But he said, “Do NOT call me, because I sleep through the storms.” He was awarded the contract.

26 주어진 글 (A)에 이어질 내용을 순서에 맞게 배열한 것으로 가장 적절한 것은?
① (B) – (D) – (C) ② (C) – (B) – (D) ③ (C) – (D) – (B)
④ (D) – (B) – (C) ⑤ (D) – (C) – (B)

27 밑줄 친 (a)∼(e) 중에서 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른 것은?
① (a) 		② (b) 		③ (c) 		④ (d) 		⑤ (e)

28 윗글에 관한 내용으로 적절하지 않은 것은?
① Brandon이 주최한 대회에 전 세계의 수많은 건축가들이 참가했다.
② 폭풍우가 치더라도 연락하지 말라고 한 설계자가 계약을 따냈다.
③ Brandon의 흥미를 끈 설계자는 빠른 시공을 약속했다.
④ 대부분의 설계자들이 두꺼운 제안서를 제출했다.
⑤ 한 설계자는 단지 한 문장을 팩스로 제출했다.
