1-C 병원비 월 납입액 조정 및 납부 기한 연장 제안
To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing to inform you that unfortunately I am unable to pay the medical bill associated with the back surgery I received on January 9, 2018.

I am not disputing the amount stated nor am I unwilling to pay it.

I am simply not in a financial situation where it would be possible to meet the current terms.

My current income (see enclosed statements) covers my day-to-day living expenses, leaving too little to make the agreed monthly payments.

Therefore I propose that I pay a smaller amount over a longer period of time to meet the obligation, or until my circumstances change and I can pay the normal amount.

I understand that this is not ideal, but it is the only feasible way for the payment to be made in full.

Thank you for your consideration.

If you require any further information from me, I will be willing to provide it.
Sincerely,
Sabrina Dempsey










1-1 재택근무 요청
Dear Sean,
I’m excited about our plans for this year’s revamped conference.

As you know, pulling off this event will require a lot of planning and writing.

We’ll need to create an email plan to blast potential attendees, write event page copy, and then develop the agenda and presentations as well.

Leading up to the event, I’d like to work from home two days a week.

In previous roles, working from home increased my productivity.

Wednesday and Friday would be ideal work-from-home days, since we don’t have any team-wide meetings.

Of course, I can be completely flexible and come into the office if we ever do need face-to-face time, and I’ll be available by phone and email on work-from-home days, in case anything comes up.

Eager to hear your thoughts on this plan.
Best,
Carrie


1-2 체포를 가까스로 피한 유대인 가족
My mother and I climbed a short ladder into the hayloft.

We crawled to the far end under the sloping roof and buried ourselves beneath loose piles of hay.

We lay motionless.

Moments later we heard voices in German shouting “Wo sind die Juden?” (Where are the Jews?)

We froze in terror.

My mother covered me with her body.

We held our breaths.

We heard one of the men stomp halfway up the ladder and fling open the trapdoor.

Leaning in, he jabbed violently around in the straw with his bayonet.

The tip was only inches away from us.

I felt my life slipping away.

Suddenly, he stopped.

Shouting in anger that there was no one up there, he descended in fury to the barn.

Cursing the Fedorow family, the men left.

As their voices faded away, my mother’s whisper broke the silence, “Irusiu, we are alive.”

How fine is the line between life and death!


1-3 무료 차량 운행 서비스 이용 권장
RappRides is an all-volunteer system that takes seniors on shopping trips to Warrenton, Culpeper, Luray, and Front Royal on successive Fridays.

RappRides just completed its first full month and the verdict is in.

Seniors love it. More than a dozen went on trips in March.

They and others at the Senior Center look forward to more trips in upcoming months.

That’s the problem.

With one exception, the only seniors who have requested trips also attend the Senior Center.

Do you want to get out of the house for a few hours?

It doesn’t have to be for shopping.

To arrange a pickup, call Darcy Canton, Senior Center Coordinator, at 540– 987–3638.

Darcy will assign a driver, who will call the senior to coordinate a pickup.

RappRides is a great service, and it’s free.

Let’s take advantage of it.

1-4 축제 현장
Sarah and I turned right into a street called Walton Street where there were stalls down each side with bright lights.

As we walked down this street we found it hard to stop and look at the stalls because we were being pushed along by the crowds.

Sarah shouted that she had never seen so many people.

About half way down the fair opened out and the pushing stopped.

We found ourselves near to the side of a big building, which a sign said was the Army Drill Hall, and stood for a little while to get our breath back and decide what to do first.

We started by walking down through the stalls; there were rows of bazaars, ring boards, shooting saloons, gingerbread stalls, and stalls displaying all sorts of fruits and spices.

Sarah said she didn’t know where to look first and thought it would be easy to spend a lot of money there if she had it.










2-C 책을 함께 읽는 것의 즐거움
What most parents do is stop sharing books as soon as a child can read alone.

That makes reading a solitary happening, with no chance to talk about a book or discuss what it is saying.

Read aloud together. Read alone yourself, then say, “Have you read this book? I really liked it.”

Once you begin to be book-sharers you will have no end of delight in sharing.

Our son brought us a copy of Brian Jacques’ Redwall and said, “I think you’ll like this. It’s a good book.”

We respect each other’s opinions because we have read aloud together and talked about books.

That son is in college now and recently visited us.

He left a book behind, saying, “I’d like you to read this. It tells you some of my thinking about relationships.”

Sharing a book makes for a delightful companionship.

It is sharing yourself.









2-1 미술가의 명함 사용
Having a business card is an obvious, but very important, everyday method to get your name, your artwork, and your message out.

It’s also an easy way for people to access your name at some later date.

Amazingly enough, though, most artists don’t use them.

It’s surprising but true that many fine artists are inept at designing anything with type and small graphic elements, especially for themselves.

Maybe you think business cards are too businesslike.

Try thinking of them as calling cards or, with your artwork on them, as art cards — little gifts you give away.

Business cards are too important to your success to avoid.

Imagine if you, with your business cards, and another artist, without business cards, meet a dealer or collector at the same time.

Which one of you is more likely to be contacted later?

It won’t matter who’s the better artist.





2-2 남자아이에게 운동이 필요한 이유
Active, energetic, rambunctious boys are not bad boys and should not be made to feel so.

Boys are naturally active.

They have energy to burn.

That’s why they need avenues where they can be active, burn up that energy, and test their strength.

Boys need exercise.

It is not a luxury, it is a necessity.

Video games don’t provide exercise.

And neither do television or computers.

All boys need to romp and learn that even in rambunctious play, there are rules and order.

Through sports and exercise, they learn to control their muscles, control their bodies, and even control their emotions and their minds.

As a boy grows older, he can transfer these skills he learns into other areas of his life.

He can never learn to control his energy if he is not allowed to experience the fullness of its power.





2-3 미기후를 이용한 식물 기르기
Within your garden there will be a variety of microclimates resulting from the placement of structures (your own and those of your neighbours) and surrounding plants.

Use these to your advantage when trying to grow plants less suited to the general climate of the region.

Some years ago, for example, the flamboyant beauty of tropical hibiscus plants captivated me.

Knowing there was no possibility they would thrive out in my windswept, exposed garden in inland Victoria, I planted them in pots and placed them against a sheltered north-facing stone wall.

Every two or three years I divide and repot them and give many root divisions away.

A city gardener I know in Melbourne was able to grow bananas in her garden by taking advantage of the radiant heat from the brick wall of a neighbouring block of flats.











2-4 상대방의 말에 귀 기울이기
Suppose that you and I are discussing the current president of the United States.

I feel that he is the best president we have ever had.

You totally disagree and feel that he is the worst one we have ever had.

In the discussion that follows, you ask, “Why do you think he is the most important or best president?”

I then give you a list of reasons, as well as some of the important things that he has done.

Rather than trying to explain how I’m wrong or thinking up arguments about what I’ve said, you should try to listen to me and try to understand my position.

In other words, the listener should try to hear and understand where the other person is coming from, and not prepare arguments or retaliations.

The individual who is really listening tends not to interrupt and give her own point of view, but rather will ask additional questions in order to clarify and understand the other person’s position.









3-C 신석기 시대 거석 건축물
The massive tombs and ceremonial structures built from huge stones in the Neolithic period are known as megalithic architecture, from the Greek words for “large” (megas) and “stone” (lithos).

Archaeologists disagree about the nature of the societies that created them.

Some believe megalithic monuments reflect complex, stratified societies in which powerful religious or political leaders dictated their design and commanded the large workforce necessary to accomplish these ambitious engineering projects.

Other interpreters argue that these massive undertakings are clear evidence for cooperative collaboration within and among social groups, coalescing around a common project that fueled social cohesion without the controlling power of a ruling elite.

Many megalithic structures are associated with death, and recent interpretations stress the fundamental role of death and burial as public theatrical performances in which individual and group identity, cohesion, and disputes were played out.










3-1 동물의 가축화
The domestication of animals occurred some 10,000 years ago and represented a milestone for the history of human civilization.

The origin and sequence of domestication is a hotly debated topic among anthropologists and historians.

Richard Bulliet, professor of history at Columbia University, argues that animals were probably first kept in captivity for use in sacrificial rites.

This practice allowed ancient civilizations to observe which species were tame enough for use as work animals.

Animals, notably cattle, provided labor and locomotion when they were harnessed to plows, sledges, and wagons beginning in about 4000 BC.

Thus, animal agriculture was indispensable to accelerating the development of crop agriculture.

The flesh and hides of sacrificial animals were routinely consumed by those in the royal house or the priesthood.

Eventually, the habit of having the animals under human control at all times provided a constant and consistent food supply ready at hand.

It also thereby created the leisure time necessary to societal progress.





3-2 조류와 조류의 활동을 통한 개체군 연구
Much of what we know about the population processes of animals comes from studies on birds.

The reasons are not hard to find, for compared to many other animals, birds are relatively easy to study.

Most species are active by day; they are conspicuous and can be recognised by their appearance, songs or calls, which makes them easy to detect and count.

In addition, most birds can be trapped and marked with leg rings or other tags.

They then become identifiable as individuals, enabling their movements and life histories to be followed, and their survival rates to be calculated.

Many species, too, are large enough to carry radio-transmitters or other electronic devices, so that their day-to-day activities and movements can be recorded.

When tracked using satellites or geolocator tags, individuals can also be followed on their migrations, wherever on earth they travel.

Hardly any other kinds of animals show such an obliging combination of characteristics.





3-3 지구 기후에 영향을 미치는 태양 에너지 변화
Recent measurements using radiometers on satellites suggest that solar energy, which is an input to our climate system, can vary considerably.

Changes of the order of 0.1% of the total solar energy reaching the Earth have already been measured, within a period of less than 20 months.

This kind of change could be linked to sunspot activity, which has a periodicity of 11 years.

Sunspots are magnetic storms giving (or showing) cooler regions on the Sun’s surface.

Thus a sunspot maximum corresponds to a minimum of received solar energy.

According to measurements during the period 1976 to 1980, the Sun’s surface cooled by about 6°C corresponding to an increase in the number and the size of sunspots.

These changes may alter the Earth’s climate since, according to numerical climate models, a 0.5% change in solar output could be enough to change the climate.

In addition, a decrease in solar energy of the order of 1% could lead to a decrease in the Earth’s average temperature by 1.0°C.







3-4 교과서와 시판 도서의 차이
Trade books can provide the space to bring a subject to life with interesting observations and details, presenting the reader with a richer understanding of the topic.

Because textbooks must cover such a large number of topics, they are unable to develop a single idea with any depth.

Therefore, textbooks offer a broad and consequently shallower view of subjects that does not allow for the kind of compelling presentation available in trade books.

For example, one passage in the textbook simply mentions that asteroids can hit the Earth.

The trade book, however, chronicles the event of an asteroid’s entry into atmosphere, its collision with the planet, and the blasting of a crater 25 miles deep and 100 miles across.

It describes in fascinating detail the vaporization at the impact point, the earthquakes, the fires, and the debris that caused a worldwide period of intense heat followed by darkness and freezing temperatures.

It is difficult to provide readers this kind of detail and insight in the limited space allowed by a textbook.







4-C 혁신적인 도시가 되기 위한 요건
The innovativeness of cities is related directly to the quality of human talent.

China’s coastal cities have been quicker off the mark because they have been more successful in nurturing quality, retaining the most talented knowledge workers, and attracting the cream of the knowledge workers from other parts of the country.

The coastal cities are also more open and accessible to outsiders and have integrated with global knowledge networks.

For smaller inland cities to become innovative smart cities, they will need to specialize and pull in some of the best brains in their fields of specialization from across the country.

Any serious attempt to become an innovative city built on the quality of talent, which after all is the life blood of innovation, will have to combine urban design and renewal with a focus on developing a few core areas of world-class expertise.
















4-1 문제를 더 폭넓게 재정의하는 것의 장점
U.S. manufacturing companies discovered the bright side of decision problems when they were forced by law to eliminate environmentally harmful materials from their operating processes.

At first, the companies saw only the negatives — disruptions, higher costs, more paperwork.

But then some of them began to see opportunities.

Instead of viewing the problem in its narrow and obvious form — How can we get rid of the harmful materials? — they redefined it more broadly: How can we produce our product in the best and most efficient way?

As a result, they made breakthroughs in their operations that have actually enabled them to have lower production costs without toxic materials than with them.

By changing a problem into an opportunity, they gained an important advantage over their less savvy competitors.











4-2 혁신의 발생
Higher food production, markets for products of all sorts, incentives for inventors, greater ability to communicate ideas, and the scientific method all combined to fuel more and more rapid innovation.

Ideas built on ideas, often in surprising ways.

Lens-making for eyeglasses let craftsmen work decades longer, even after their eyesight faltered.

It also gave birth to telescopes when early inventors discovered that lenses could be placed in front of other lenses to make distant objects appear near.

The telescope then gave birth to the microscope.

The microscope uncovered the world of microorganisms too small for the eye to see.

The discovery of microorganisms, and the ability to look for them on food, in water, and in samples taken from the body, led to the germ theory of disease.

That in turn led to modern medicine and longer lives.











4-3 유머의 문화적 고유성
What we find funny, comical, or hilarious depends on where we come from, in which country (even which region of a country) we grew up, and what language(s) we speak.

There is, of course, a certain communality in what cultures consider comical, but a significant part of the comical and the comedy remains specific to a culture and is, therefore, almost untranslatable.

There is, in other words, a direct but complex relationship between nationality and sense of humor.

What we see as comical or funny does not only depend on us as unique individuals; on the contrary, it largely depends on our identity as part of a larger social group.

For instance, what solicits the highest respect from one group (religious rituals or nationalist celebrations are favorites here) can be seen as comical by those who look at it from the outside, who are embedded in a similarly social but crucially different structure of their own group.











4-4 사회 변화를 가져오는 소수 집단
Minorities tend not to have much power or status and may even be dismissed as troublemakers, extremists or simply ‘weirdos’.

How, then, do they ever have any influence over the majority?

The social psychologist Serge Moscovici claims that the answer lies in their behavioural style, i.e. the way the minority gets its point across.

The crucial factor in the success of the suffragette movement was that its proponents were consistent in their views, and this created a considerable degree of social influence.

Minorities that are active and organised, who advocate and defend their position consistently, can create social conflict, doubt and uncertainty among members of the majority, and ultimately this may lead to social change.

Such change has often occurred because a minority has converted others to its point of view.

Without the influence of minorities, we would have no innovation, no social change.

Many of what we now regard as ‘major’ social movements (e.g. Christianity, trade unionism or feminism) were originally due to the influence of an outspoken minority.







6-C 미국 최초의 흑인 여성 예술가 에드모니아 루이스
Edmonia Lewis was America’s first black woman artist and also the first of her race and gender to be recognized as a sculptor.

Born on July 4, 1845, in Albany, New York, she was the daughter of a Chippewa woman and a free black man.

From 1859 to 1863 she was educated at Oberlin College, the first American college to admit women into an integrated environment.

After college, Lewis moved to Boston, where she studied with Edmund Brackett and did a bust of Colonel Robert Gould Shaw, the commander of the first black regiment organized in the state of Massachusetts during the Civil War.

In 1865 she moved to Rome, where she soon became a prominent artist.

Returning to the United States in 1874, she fulfilled many commissions, including a bust of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow that was executed for the Harvard College Library.


Her works are fine examples of the neoclassical sculpture that was fashionable during her lifetime.









6-1 바바코의 특징
The babaco is a very hardy plant. It is very easy to grow and grows on the mountains as well as close to the sea where there is salt in the air and strong storms.

The babaco can also survive slight frosts.

In Australia and New Zealand the babaco is grown commercially.

The fruit is up to 30 cm long and weighs about 1 kg.

The babaco is sometimes called the “Fruit-Salad Tree” because the fruit tastes like a mixture of strawberry, pineapple and papaya.

It’s also called the fruit with champagne taste.

To taste really good, the fruit has to be absolutely ripe.

Full ripeness on the tree is not easy to obtain as the birds like the fruit as well.

They will sit on it and pick the juicy fruit flesh.

The heavy fruits fall from the tree.

A bird’s net is therefore necessary in order to protect the fruit.

The leaves of the babaco look similar to the leaves of the papaya but are smaller and have only three major fingers.


6-2 미국 코미디언이자 배우인 플립 윌슨의 희극적 재능
Flip Wilson was an American comedian and actor.

His comic talents first surfaced while he was serving in the Air Force.

Sent overseas to the Pacific, Wilson entertained his buddies with preposterous routines.

Back in civilian life, he worked as a bellboy and part-time showman.

Opportunity struck in 1959 when a Miami businessman sponsored him for one year at $50 a week, thus enabling Wilson to concentrate on the evolution of his routine.

For the next five years or so, Wilson appeared regularly at the Apollo Theater in Harlem.

In 1965 he began a series of nationwide appearances on The Tonight Show.

Long-term contracts and several hit records followed in quick sequence, and Wilson became firmly established as one of the truly innovative talents in the comedy profession.

He reached the pinnacle of the entertainment world with a series of original routines and ethnic characters rivaled only by those of Bill Cosby.

His hilarious monologues, seen on a number of network television shows, made him the most visible black comedian of the early 1970s.



6-3 후파 족의 도토리 축제
The Hupa people, who reside in Northern California, had two main ceremonies each year, the First Salmon Rite in the spring and the Acorn Feast in the fall, both foods being major components in their diet.

The Acorn Feast gained added significance as being one of the few ceremonies among Native Americans of the Northwest that were overseen and led by women.

The Acorn Feast would begin as the nuts began to drop from the local oak trees each fall.

A female officiant would gather the first acorns to reach the ground, cook them, and prepare them with appropriate prayers and ritual actions.

When the ritual was completed, the acorns would be offered to the group for consumption.

The ritual appears to have been abandoned through much of the 20th century, as the Hupa people adopted Christianity and acorn flour became less important in their diet; but in 1989, for the first time in more than 50 years, it was again revived.

It is now seen as part of their cultural heritage.







6-4 건축가 안드레아 드 피에트로 델라 곤돌라
Andrea di Pietro della Gondola is one of the most famous architects of the Italian Renaissance.

Born in Padua in 1508, ten years before Tintoretto, he owes his nickname, Palladio, to an angel in an epic poem (“Italy liberated from the Goths!”) written by his mentor Gian Giorgio Trissino.

He made several trips to Rome between 1541 and 1554 and was impressed by the ancient ruins which inspired him throughout his career.

He designed numerous villas in the Venetian countryside, always seeking the ideal proportions, symmetry and visual order.

In his Four Books of Architecture he detailed his theories and presented his projects (including for the Rialto Bridge).

A destroyer of the Gothic (symbol of an unacceptable disorder), Palladio appears almost as an anti-Tintoretto.

He died in 1580 after designing two magnificent churches in Venice, the San Giorgio Maggiore and the Chiesa del Santissimo Redentore, urban monuments that place him at the pinnacle of the religious architecture of the sixteenth century.






8-C 다른 사람의 지각과 관심사를 이해하기
Emotions and emotional sensitivity are important to our effectiveness in problem-solving.

We would like our actions to be well reasoned and make sense, but each element of a good working relationship depends on emotional input.

Our understanding of another person’s perceptions and interests will be inadequate unless it is empathetic - unless we know, to some degree at least, what it feels like to be in that situation.

If we don’t understand how others are feeling, our communication may suffer.

Only if we recognize how they feel about things will we be able to persuade them.

Finally, a full acceptance of another person as someone whose interests and views matter depends on our feelings of caring and respect.















8-1 교육에서의 지식격차
Few people know very much about why schools exist as they do today; the intellectual traditions that have shaped education seem to be invisible to most observers.

This is a strange gap in the knowledge of the public.

With physics, most informed laypeople could write a coherent sentence or two about Einstein and Newton.

For biology, a page might be forthcoming on Darwin.

Even for economics, most could probably say something sensible about Keynes and Marx.

But for education, most, I think, would struggle to offer anything at all about Dewey or Piaget.

It is perhaps this gap in awareness and understanding about what education is and how it has developed that has contributed to the lack of creativity about how to improve it.












8-2 사회적 지위가 사회화에 끼치는 영향
One of the best-known examples of how social position affects socialization comes from the research of Carol Gilligan.

She showed how sociological factors help explain differences in the sense of self that boys and girls usually develop.

Parents and teachers tend to pass on different cultural standards to boys and girls.

Such adult authorities usually define the ideal woman as eager to please and therefore nonassertive.

Most girls learn this lesson as they mature.

The fact that girls usually encounter more male and fewer female teachers and other authority figures as they grow up reinforces the lesson.

Consequently, much research shows that girls tend to develop lower self-esteem than boys do, although it seems doubtful that teenage girls in general experience the decline in self-esteem that Gilligan detected in her early work.













8-3 사회관계망에 파묻혀 있는 인간
Humans are embedded in networks of social relationships that form a series of expanding circles around each individual.

Our ability to keep track of the constantly changing world of our social relationships depends on the advanced social cognitive capacities that we share with monkeys and apes.

The ‘social brain hypothesis’ refers to the fact that primates have unusually large brains compared to other animals and that these enhanced cognitive capacities are related to the fact that they have a more complex social life.

At the core of this lie the concepts of trust and obligation, which enable individuals to cooperate in groups to solve the problems of survival and successful reproduction in more efficient ways.

However, any such system is inevitably plagued by free riders (those who take the benefits of cooperating, but fail to pay all the costs), and mechanisms are needed to keep them under control, in order to avoid the delicate balance of relationships in cooperative social systems from being destroyed.










8-4 인간 본성에 대한 실제적인 지식을 얻는 일의 중요성
Psychiatry is a field that demands a tremendous knowledge of human nature.

The psychiatrist must gain insight into the mind of the disturbed patient as quickly and accurately as possible.

In this field of medicine the practitioner can only diagnose, treat and prescribe effectively when quite sure of what is going on in the patient.

Superficiality has no place here.

Diagnostic errors are soon apparent, whereas a correct understanding of the disorder leads to successful treatment.

In other words, our knowledge of human nature is rigorously tested.

In everyday life errors in our judgement of another human being are not necessarily linked with dramatic consequences, for these consequences may occur so long after the mistake has been made that the connection between cause and effect is not obvious.

We are frequently astonished when terrible misfortunes occur many years after a misunderstanding of another person.

These unhappy events teach us that it is the duty of every human being to acquire a working knowledge of human nature.






9-C 주방도구에 대한 관심의 필요성
The equipment of the kitchen can seem unimportant compared to the history of food itself.

It is all very well fussing over the details of table settings and jelly moulds, but what does this matter compared to a basic hunger for bread?

Perhaps this explains why kitchen tools have been so neglected in histories of food.

Culinary history has become a hot subject over the past two decades.

But the focus of these new histories, with a few notable exceptions, has overwhelmingly been ingredients rather than technique: what we cooked rather than how we cooked it.

There have been books on potatoes, cod and chocolate and histories of cookbooks, restaurants and cooks.

The kitchen and its tools are more or less absent. and as a result, half the story is missing.

This matters: we change the texture, the taste, the nutritional content and the cultural associations of ingredients simply by using different tools and techniques to prepare them.






9-1 동물의 체온 조절 방법
Many animals, including warm-blooded mammals, change body position or posture to help regulate internal temperature.

This, too, is a familiar behavior in the cold when animals curl up to conserve heat and groups of animals, such as puppies and kittens, huddle together for protection from the cold.

The same types of postural adjustments are seen in the heat.

Retracted postures lessen heat loss to the environment by decreasing the surface area available to exchange heat.

They are favored when surrounding temperature is much colder than body temperature.

Extended postures increase heat loss by increasing the surface area of the body exposed to the environment.

They are useful to dissipate heat when the environment is hot but still below the body temperature.

However, body extension does not work when surrounding temperature is warmer than body temperature, because heat accumulates faster.

Hence, physiological strategies, such as sweating, must be called into play.








9-2 집단의 태도가 개인의 선택에 미치는 영향
Problem definition is affected by social context in any domain.

Individuals can become unable to redefine problems or evaluate progress on current problems due to the attitudes of the group.

For example, in an office environment, individuals may be familiar with a particular computer application for word processing.

However, the program eventually may become outdated or unsupported.

Initially, the group may simply go through the process of converting files or rewriting documents, rather than abandoning the program for one that is more appropriate.

Here the problem has become not word processing, but rather the word processing program itself.

The problem is not particularly difficult to spot, but the ways of the group may be so entrenched that changing programs becomes an unacceptable option.

In other words, the attitudes of a group can be pervasive in the decision process of the individual.







9-3 정신 건강 웹사이트 이용시 주의점
One way to evaluate potential bias on a mental health website is to see if products or services are being promoted or sold.

If they are, the information may be selective; it may include only information that supports the positions/ approaches being marketed.

For information posted by individuals, often those who have or have had a disorder, keeping the potential bias of the author in mind is wise.

An individual may post his/her own story, or a chronicle of his/her own experience with the disorder, with the ostensible goal of helping others by providing an example.

Whether intentional or not, such postings are also ways to obtain attention or validation, and the material may include or exclude relevant details.

The user of such information should approach it with an understanding that these accounts may be more helpful to the author than to the reader.

There are few mental disorders for which there is only one road to recovery; those who have been helped may believe their own path is the map for others.









9-4 열대지방 기후의 특징
The intense tropical sunlight warms the air, and tropical latitudes are characterized by warm temperatures.

Since daylength is more or less constant through the tropical year, there is relatively little fluctuation in temperatures through the year.

Those of us who live in the temperate zones are accustomed to heatwaves during the summer and cold spells during the winter, both of which are consequences of varying daylengths.

The long summer days heat the air, and if the air is stagnant, this heat accumulates and can’t be lost during the short nights.

The everlasting darkness in the Arctic region during the northern winters allows ample opportunity for air to lose its heat, and when this frigid air pushes into our more temperate latitudes it can cause devastating cold spells.

But in the tropics the uniformity of daylength means that there are no such opportunities for heat to build up or be lost.

Although there may be seasonal fluctuations in temperature, they tend to be minor.








10-C 타비타와 집 없는 소녀 미스 프라즐
When Aunt Tabitha woke in the morning she crept in to look at Miss Frazzle.

She gasped as she saw the empty bed, and then, as she hurried forward, she saw the girl lying asleep on the floor, curled up, her face resting on her hands.

Poor little girl! How thin and pale she looked, how young and helpless!

The plump, grey-haired woman felt a sudden rush of motherly feelings warming her heart.

All the village called her ‘aunt’, and yet no child of her own had she ever had.

Brian, her husband, was well enough in his way, but off roaming the hills most of the time, and there was no companionship to be got from him.

A girl, now, would be different.

There’d be someone to talk to about the small happenings of the day, someone she could care for.

She had always felt she had so much to give, but there was no one who needed it.

Now perhaps this homeless girl could take what she had to offer and maybe even care a little in return.





10-1 찰스와 잭슨 형제의 일화
Charles tried his hardest to encourage Jackson, recognizing that his brother had a low opinion of his abilities.

But Jackson resisted his help.

He refused to show Charles his paintings, and instead of hanging them up, used to turn them against the wall.

Equally dissatisfied with his sketches, he developed an unfortunate habit of ripping them up.

Charles would try to salvage them, collecting the scraps, placing them in a drawer and assuring his brother that his work was worth saving.

But it was inconceivable to Jackson that his early work might ever be of interest; he didn’t even bother to sign or date his paintings.














10-2 미스 맥그래고르에 대한 바바라 한라한의 깊은 애착
As well as the all-important family members, Barbara Hanrahan formed other attachments.

When she was in her early teens she found excitement in going to her music teacher’s house just around the corner.

This provoked a deep attachment to her teacher, Miss McGregor, of whom Barbara was so possessive that she was upset when another pupil was seen awaiting her lesson.

The fascination with Miss McGregor later inspired a wish to write her story, the first outsider to Barbara’s family to give her the idea of writing the lives of ordinary, yet to Barbara strange and unique suburban women.

She remained attached to Miss McGregor, and visited her, armed with a tape recorder, as late as 1980.

She admired the beautiful simplicity of Miss McGregor’s home, and saw it as a world apart from the everyday lives of most people.














10-3 어머니와 작별 인사를 하는 하냐
The goodbye at the train station was very emotional.

Hanya asked her mother to give Alinka her gratitude for her help, since Alinka could get in trouble for helping Hanya.

One day Hanya hoped to be able to see Alinka, and tell her everything that she had gone through.

She kissed both her mother’s hands and hugged her for a long time, and then it was time to board the train.

She stood there on the platform while the train slowly moved away.

Tears ran down her cheeks when she saw her mother waving a white handkerchief out of the open window of the train.

That reminded her of a scene from many years ago when her father waved a white handkerchief when going into the war.

Soon the train went around the corner, disappearing from sight.

Now she was glad to have John holding her arm, and she felt safe walking home with him.








10-4 자다가 뒤척이는 케이트를 안심시키는 빅토리아
Kate’s sudden movement startled Victoria. Kate rolled over from her side onto her stomach.

Suddenly she started fidgeting in her sleep.

Her eyes began to flutter and she began to cry.

Victoria stepped toward her, reached out, placed a hand on her shoulder, and spoke softly. “Easy, darling. Sleep now, darling. You’re safe,” she said. “Grandmother is here. Sleep.”

In reflex, under her grandmother’s touch, Kate’s sleeping form calmed down immediately.

Victoria leaned over and brushed away the strands of stray hair from her granddaughter’s face.

Her skin was warm to her touch. Victoria raised her fingers to her own lips, kissed them, and then touched Kate’s lips with them.

“You sleep now, darling. We’ll talk about all of this tomorrow and what we’re going to do,” she whispered. “We’ll fix this. I promise. You rest now.”

She slowly walked her way back to the doorway, gave one long look over her shoulder, and shut the door behind her.








11-C 로마의 동전을 통해 알 수 있는 교역 패턴
Local goods in India were purchased with durable gold and silver coins, each dated by the image of a Roman emperor.

Caches of these coins are still being discovered in south India, offering us a glimpse of trade patterns two thousand years ago.

They include gold and silver coins from the reigns of Augustus and Tiberius (27 BC to AD 37), suggesting a vigorous trade in a large volume of goods.

After the death of Tiberius, the composition of the Indian coin caches changes.

Significant numbers of only gold, but not silver, coins bearing the heads of Caligula, Claudius, and Nero (AD 37.68) are found.

According to the historian E. H. Warmington, this absence of silver coins suggests a trade mainly in luxury goods during that period.

Few Roman coins of any type are found after the death of Marcus Aurelius in AD 180.

When Roman and Han authority finally collapsed around AD 200, trade with the East came to an almost complete standstill.





11-1 더 큰 이득을 위해 사익을 포기하는 영장류의 사회 체제
Primate social systems, including those of humans, are implicit social contracts where, in effect, members agree to forgo their immediate self-interests, in order to gain greater benefits, in the long run, by solving some ecological problem more effectively.

For most primates, this ecological problem will usually be predation risk.

By banding together, individuals reduce their exposure to the risk of being caught by a predator, either because they benefit from a ‘many eyes’ advantage (the time needed to monitor the surroundings for predators can be shared, thus reducing the cost to each individual) or because the presence of many individuals is an effective deterrent to most predators.

There is evidence to suggest that, as primate species have colonized more terrestrial and/or more open habitats (where the risk of predation is higher), they have evolved larger groups.

















11-2 학생 중심의 교육
Successful learning is possible only if experiences and knowledge are synthesized with new information received in the courses.

It means that in the teaching-learning process the student group community is primary, for it is they who play the main role, not the teacher.

Students’ activity is one of the most significant requirements toward the training.

Spontaneous activity is created in group or teamwork in cooperation with others in a constant exchange of information and the shaping of common opinions.

To develop the ability of group cooperation in group work - starting with the experiences of the students participating in training - it is important to analyze and discuss problems together, to set up alternatives, and to give reasons for the decisions reached.

In this case the teacher has to help or assist only, and should not give solutions.

Education should be basically student-centered.

We have to make the student responsible for his own development in the teaching process.




11-3 지도력의 정의
The notion that teaching and leadership go hand in hand is not new.

The standard definitions of “leadership” generally state that leaders are people who motivate one or more other people to do a specific thing.

This involves teaching those other people to see the desirability of reaching that specific goal and, usually, showing them how to get there.

More sophisticated definitions of leadership shift away from the idea that leaders set concrete targets or that they specify the actions to be taken.

Warren Bennis, who teaches and runs a center that studies leadership at the University of Southern California, has written about leadership for decades.

He states that “the basis of leadership is the capacity of the leader to change the mindset, the framework, of another person.”

In other words, according to Bennis, leaders get people to reach for common goals by helping them see aspects of the world differently.









11-4 주의를 흐트러뜨리는 것을 친숙하게 만드는 훈련
Both NASA and the U.S. Air Force commonly use flight simulations to train astronauts and pilots to cope with flight and equipment problems that might cause them to lose focus.

Successful coaches also use simulations to prepare athletes for
potential distractors by creating gamelike situations in practice.

They may simulate pressure situations, crowd noise, weather conditions, and the time of day or night of the actual event.

For example, it is not uncommon in American football for teams to run their offense with a tape of loud crowd noise or the opposing team’s fight song blaring from the public address system.

A professional golfer who is distracted by the sounds of a camera click may have a person take pictures while he practices putting.

An athlete who loses focus if an official makes an apparently bad call could have bad calls made against her during training sessions so she can practice her refocusing strategies.

The point is to make anticipated distractions familiar.








12-C 새로운 요소의 생태학적 영향
When rabbits were imported to Australia in the middle of the nineteenth century, the result was more than a few cute little bunnies added to the continent. Australia + rabbits.

Rather, the result was a whole new Australia, one in which entire species of plants were wiped out and in which erosion, caused by rabbits destroying vast areas of grassland, changed the very landscape.

Just as adding a drop of poison to a glass of water changes the molecular structure of that entire glass, the addition of rabbits to the continent changed the entire ecology of the nation.

Technological innovation is much the same.

It is not additive but ecological.

North America after the introduction of the telegraph was not simply the old North America plus the telegraph.

Instead, it was a whole new continent.

Today, we know that America plus the Internet is giving us a whole new nation, one that is radically different from the one before it.









12-1 침묵 속에 살 수 없는 인간의 본성
Driving every diversion, from international warfare to international tourism, is the promise of escaping boredom at home, said Pascal in his day: “I have discovered that all the unhappiness of men arises from one single fact, that they cannot stay quietly in their own chamber.”

Staring at the ceilings of our quiet bedrooms, with only our thoughts about ourselves and reality, is unbearable.

“Hence it comes that men so much love noise and stir; hence it comes that the prison is so horrible a punishment; hence it comes that the pleasure of solitude is a thing incomprehensible.”

To be without the constant availability of distraction is solitary confinement, a punishment to be most dreaded.

That is why in those moments when we realize we have forgotten our phone, lost it, or let the battery run out, we taste the captivity of a prison cell, and it can be frightening.












12-2 음악에 대한 반응의 다양성
Although listeners to a concert may experience a degree of arousal in common, the way in which the music is presented makes possible a greater range of individual reactions than can be expected if everyone is taking part in music which is familiar to them.

Some research indicates that there is some measure of agreement between listeners about the emotional significance of particular musical works; but this agreement only applies to the most general features of the work in question.

Even on the most public occasions, I cannot be entirely sure that my neighbour is feeling exactly what I feel.

It is possible, though unlikely, that he is laughing at funerals, sneering at coronations, feeling malice at weddings.

At the end of an orchestral concert of music which has no external reference it is more difficult to be sure of what other members of the audience are feeling.

We may all applaud enthusiastically, but I cannot be certain that we are sharing the same experience.












12-3 성과에 대한 구체적 인정의 필요성
The need to think about people humanely applies not only to individuals but to groups as well.

I was called into a client’s firm to help him solve a problem.

His company had just completed a crash development project that had required the team to work almost 24 hours a day and 7 days a week for two months.

It was an enormous success. But a month later, two of the team members left their jobs to work for a competitor.

Why? my client wanted to know.

I asked him what the company had done to celebrate the launch.

He looked at me, puzzled.

Nothing, he said.

His team simply resumed their normal working hours.

Rather than acknowledging how working those insane hours had affected the team members and their families, the company turned its back on the human impact.

It could have offered the team time off, or a bonus, or the chance to work at home one day a week for a month. anything, really, to show their appreciation and gratitude.

Little wonder that when no thanks were forthcoming, some team members decided to bolt.



12-4 음악적이라는 것의 다양한 방식
The shift from a teacher-centered, high-art focus to a more egalitarian, student-centered orientation highlights several issues about musical and educational values.

In the past, musical values were typically rooted in the widespread music conservatory system, and the music curriculum was implemented by classically trained music teachers.

In the context of early twenty-first century education, musical values in education are increasingly motivated by multiple sources - political democracy, cultural policies, mass media, arts advocacy, social justice campaigns, school communities, and not least the individual musical preferences of teachers and students.

The presence of these various sources is indicative of the breakdown of monolithic value systems, the demise of cultural hegemony, and the emergence of a world-view that acknowledges diverse ways of being musical.

The goodness and value of individual music culture are acknowledged in the multiple ways in which music functions in the everyday lives of people, whether it is their quest for freedom, celebration of rites of passage, rebellion against social injustice, gratitude for divine intervention, or transmission of cultural heritage in the telling of a story.




13-C 조명과 인테리어 디자인 설계
Because we see light reflecting from or transmitting through materials, the surface characteristics of these materials are critically important to the color and amount of reflected or transmitted light.

Indeed, a good interior design plan can be rendered lifeless (read “ruined”) by bad lighting.

Alternatively, a good lighting design plan can be ruined by bad interior design.

These maxims hold for architecture and landscape architecture.

So, a team effort is, indeed, a necessity if there is any hope of getting the most out of the lighting and out of the interiors, the architecture, and /or the landscape architecture.




















13-1 제1형 당뇨병의 발병 원인
In most populations type 1 diabetes accounts for around 5-10% of cases of diabetes, and is usually diagnosed in childhood.

Untreated, the total absence of insulin leads to ketoacidosis, which can cause loss of consciousness and, without intervention, death.

More than 90% of people who develop type 1 diabetes carry known genetic markers for the disease.

Yet, the vast majority of people with genetic markers do not develop type 1 diabetes.

It seems clear that exposure to environmental triggers in genetically susceptible individuals is needed.

At present, with poor knowledge of the environmental triggers of type 1 diabetes, there are currently no effective approaches to its prevention.












13-2 재료의 화재 위험 평가의 어려움
Evaluation of the fire hazards of materials is complicated, because so many variables can influence the process.

These variables include material properties and configurations, environmental conditions, and enclosure effects.

Consequently, the fire hazards associated with different materials depend not only on their chemical and physical properties, but also on their applications.

For example, textile materials applied to walls and ceilings pose fire hazards and risks different from the same materials used as floor coverings; a Christmas tree fire will cause more severe conditions in a family room than in a hotel ballroom.

Methods are needed to evaluate the fire hazards of materials, products, and assemblies under a full range of anticipated use conditions.














13-3 단일 가격 정책과 융통성 있는 가격 책정
With a one-price policy, an organisation charges the same price for all customers who seek to purchase the product under similar conditions.

Price may vary according to quantity purchased, time of purchase, and so forth, but all consumers are given the opportunity to pay the same price for identical product combinations.

A one-price policy builds consumer confidence, is easier to administer, eliminates bargaining and allows for self-service and catalogue sales.

Flexible pricing, on the other hand, allows the marketer to adjust prices in accordance with the consumer’s negotiating ability or buying power.

Such a strategy works well in holiday resorts and similar establishments which are often visited by tour or conference groups.















13-4 연구소에서 하는 업무
Research laboratories must have the capability of testing any product manufactured by their company and its competitors.

The more diversified the company’s products, the greater the need for more varied equipment.

Investigation and development of new test instruments for recommendation to the divisions of the company are other important duties of such a lab.

This particular phase of work can result in increased productivity and a more accurate definition of properties related to the end-use performance of products.

It is also in such labs that test results aid in the prediction of new methods, in improvement of existing products, and as a tool for problem solving.















14-C 흔들린 서퍼 증후군
Helmets are a good idea in big surf, especially if you are surfing alone, in extra crowded conditions, or if it is offshore (your board may spin out of sight high in the air, then come crashing down onto your head).

An optimal helmet for big-wave surfing has not yet been designed.

The problem is that most helmets’ wider profile prevents your head from entering the water smoothly.

This can result in a whiplash-type injury to your neck, but worse, it may amplify wipeout-associated acceleration-deceleration brain microtrauma.

Such repeated head trauma over many years, probably more common in big-wave riders, may lead to a slowing of brain function and has been called shaken surfer syndrome.

It is similar to what is seen in boxers and football players from repeated head trauma.

To lessen your number of wipeouts is to lessen your chance of getting shaken surfer syndrome.











14-1 시장에 따라 다른 경쟁과 독점
Whenever competitiveness is an issue, market area is a key issue.

The market for some goods and services is local. For others it is regional, national, or international.

Plumbing repair is a locally provided service.

It may be supplied competitively in some areas, but not in others.

Automaking is a global business.

The number of auto producers worldwide is important.

The number in each specific place is nearly irrelevant.

The reverse is true of plumbing repair.

A one-plumber town is a monopoly, even if there are many plumbers elsewhere.

By itself, however, the one-plumber situation is not a major problem.

If the plumber performs poorly, charges extraordinary rates, or just can’t keep up with the demand, the monopoly probably will vanish.

Migration and training programs can deliver new plumbers.

Except for natural monopolies, monopolies survive only if shielded by high entry barriers.



14-2 어린아이들의 자율권
Young children certainly are not fully rational and autonomous (to the degree of normal competent adults), and thus clearly cannot be held to enjoy the basic Autonomy Right of having their destinies determined by their own choices and decisions.

However, there is one very good reason for often treating them as if they had such a right.

Treating children as though they are autonomous aids them in developing into genuinely autonomous persons; treating them as responsible persons aids them in becoming responsible persons.

Such “fictions” have a way of becoming self-fulfilling prophecies.

We shall, of course, want to place limits on such treatment in the interest of the child and pick our instances of fictional autonomy ascription wisely.

For example, if a small child decides that he does not want to take the penicillin prescribed for a streptococcus infection in his throat, this would be a bad case in which to let his decision prevail in the interest of developing future autonomy.








14-3 목표의 성공이나 실패를 결정하는 요인
Goals can be short term or long term; they can involve the workplace and career advancement; they can involve family and domestic matters; they can refer to a leisure or sporting activity.

In the case of all goals, however, we can divide the factors that determine success or failure into two classes: those which we would see as motivational and those which we would not.

Take academic achievement, for example.

It is obvious that people have a better chance of such achievement in our society if they come from a higher socioeconomic class, if they have enjoyed better schooling, and, assuming that all are not born equal, if they have greater native ability.

These and other factors make up the class of non-motivational determinants of achievement.

However, we all know that even when individuals appear to be matched fairly well on these sorts of factors, even when we can assume some realistic equality of opportunity, there are nevertheless those who seem to achieve more simply because they try harder, persist longer.











14-4 소식지를 활용한 광고
Contributing to other people’s newsletters with articles or inserts is an inexpensive and excellent way to reach new markets and tap into the captured customers of another business.

Most newsletter publishers welcome submissions from others, because finding content for newsletters is an ongoing challenge.

If you provide them with non-competing information, you can easily gain access to another company’s newsletter.

For example, a massage therapist might submit to a chiropractor’s newsletter.

The services are similar enough to appeal to the same audience, but different enough to offer distinct services.

You can either submit a story, or provide an insert to the newsletter publisher.

In the latter case, it works much like a joint mailing.

You help defray the cost of mailing the newsletter in exchange for letting your insert ride along.

Both parties win.





15-C 현대미술의 이해
Contemporary art has increased the difficulty of looking at, understanding, and enjoying art.

Unexpected materials, unusual subject matter, and unpredictable formats have challenged familiar values, and norms and in the process have puzzled, even alienated spectators.

Popular culture has been more effective in connecting art with the public.

Mona Lisa T-shirts and David tote bags, along with numerous other reproductions of mostly renowned masterpieces, have spread art in informal ways and to unexpected places.

However, it takes more to understand art than wearing a T-shirt.

But where to start?

To discern what defines art in today’s vibrant and ever-changing context may be exciting for experts, but it is downright frustrating for the audience.










15-1 벼와 옥수수의 품종 개량
Rice stalks lower their heads when they are mature and corn kernels remain on the shoots even when they are ripe.

This may not seem strange, but, in reality, these types of rice and corn should not survive in nature.

Normally, when they mature, seeds should fall down to the ground in order to germinate.

However, rice and corn are mutants, and they have been modified to keep their seeds attached for the purpose of convenient and efficient harvesting.

Humans have continuously selected and bred such mutants, through breeding technology, in order for these phenomena to occur.

These mutant seeds have been spread intentionally, which means that the plants have become artificial species not found in nature, having been bred to keep their seeds intact.

By nurturing these cultivars, the most preferred seeds are produced.












15-2 역동적인 DNA의 변화
Your DNA dictates your genetic vulnerabilities.

The actual DNA sequence - the genome passed down from grandparents to parents to children - is relatively stable, changing only in rare cases of a mutation.

But DNA is more dynamic than anyone previously imagined.

As children grow and develop, parts of the genome activate and deactivate at strategic times and in specific locations.

This process happens even on a seasonal basis: Many inflammatory conditions worsen in the winter, because genes promoting inflammation upregulate and genes suppressing inflammation downregulate.

Children’s cells - down to their DNA - respond constantly to changes in the world around them.

And it turns out that exposures to both natural and man-made compounds can induce epigenetic changes that are also passed down from generation to generation.










15-3 선별 검사가 암의 조기 진단에 미친 영향
A screening test, as distinct from a diagnostic test, is used to identify disease in people who have no symptoms.

This is great if early diagnosis of a disease will result in more effective treatment.

However, in some cases, making an early diagnosis may not be helpful, particularly if there is no effective treatment.

In many countries, the advent of tests to screen healthy men for markers associated with prostate disease has led to an explosion in the number of men diagnosed with the cancer.

In the UK alone, the number of men diagnosed with prostate cancer almost doubled in the 5 years from 1990, and in Australia it tripled.

But this dramatic increase is not believed to represent a ‘real’ increase in the cancer’s incidence and is instead believed to reflect earlier diagnosis.

Thus, there are more men who now know that they have prostate cancer, but not necessarily any more men with the cancer.











15-4 화의 전조 현상에 대한 인식
Anger occurs suddenly and unexpectedly, and once initiated, it is difficult or impossible to stop.

Many of my clients believe that their anger is so sudden and unexpected that there is little or nothing they can do to control it.

I’ve often heard the description “0 to 60” to describe how quickly one’s anger is activated.

According to this belief, anger is aroused too quickly for you to be able to stop it.

The only solution is to leave the situation or for others to back off.

This faulty assumption defies the way your mind and body operate.

In most cases, there are many events that occur in the minutes and hours and sometimes days prior to an anger episode that can greatly affect how you react.

Beginning to recognize these early precursors of anger sets the stage for derailing it before it feels overwhelming.







16-C 아이의 발화에 대한 어른의 반응
Brown and Hanlon looked at mothers’ responses to “primitive” and to “well-formed” constructions uttered by the child and asked whether the response indicated comprehension or failure to comprehend the child’s meaning.

Surprisingly, primitive and well-formed utterances were understood equally well by the mothers.

There seemed to be no communication pressure for grammatical utterances.

A mother is apparently too engaged in interacting with a child to pay attention to the linguistic form of their utterances.

Brown has demonstrated this point in another way as well.

He looked at cases in which a child’s utterance was followed by an expression of approval or disapproval on the part of the adult, again finding no evidence that parental responses shape the child’s sense of grammaticality.

Parents pay attention to the content of child speech, approving true utterances and criticizing false ones, without regard to grammaticality.











16-1 잉여 식량 저장 능력과 힘의 관계
Containerizing food was important because it helped to create privileged classes and eventually to undermine the communal nature of food gathering and preserving.

As Rousseau in the eighteenth century well understood, the ability to preserve a surplus led to private property and to privileges for those controlling the most productive land and largest surplus.

This power did not always come from conquest or theft, despite claims of anarchists such as Pierre-Joseph Proudhon.

More likely is that elites acquired power from their roles as overseers of the distribution of communal stores, especially of food.

Hunters of fish, reindeer, grass seeds, and much else worked more efficiently when organized into groups to dry and preserve these goods.

Aggrandizers must have competed for control over this surplus and the collectivities that made it possible.

Power and prestige could be consolidated by controlling food stores used to fuel public festivals or emergencies.







16-2 얼굴에 끌리는 아기의 특성
Other people are by far the most interesting things in the world of the baby.

Research shows that infants are fascinated by faces from birth.

Indeed, there is a specialized brain system for face processing, which seems to function in the same way in infants and adults.

Experiments with neonates and young infants show that faces are always preferred over other stimuli, particularly live, mobile faces.

The eyes are especially interesting.

Newborn infants prefer to look at faces with eyes gazing directly at them.

They dislike looking at faces with eyes that are averted.

Babies also react negatively to a ‘still face’. an experimental situation in which the mother deliberately suspends interaction with the baby and just looks blank.

Presented with a ‘still face’, babies become fussy and upset and look away.

The ‘still face’. maternal unresponsiveness. also causes elevated levels of the stress hormone cortisol in some babies.







16-3 진정한 친구를 구별할 수 있는 기회의 부재
Humans generally act to avoid episodes of treacherous personal trouble, and many of today’s “hostile forces of nature” that would have put our ancestors in jeopardy have been harnessed or controlled.

We have laws to deter robbery, assault, and murder.

We have police to perform many of the functions previously performed by one’s friends.

We have medical knowledge that has eliminated or reduced many sources of disease and illness.

We live in an environment that is in many ways safer and more stable than that inhabited by our ancestors.

Paradoxically, therefore, we suffer from a relative scarcity of critical events that would allow us to accurately assess those who are deeply engaged in our welfare and discriminate them from our fair-weather friends.

It is possible that the loneliness and sense of alienation that many feel in modern living. a lack of a feeling of deep social connectedness despite the presence of many warm and friendly interactions. might stem from the lack of critical assessment events (e.g., times of trouble) that tell us who is deeply engaged in our welfare.





16-4 예술 가곡의 발전을 가능하게 한 요인들
An art song’s poetry existed before the song was written.

Though there are some composers who have written their own art song texts, this is the exception and not the rule.

The great art songs of the nineteenth century in Germany and France quickly spread due to the high quality of poetry being written during that time.

Early art songs depended upon the singer to be the primary interpreter of the poem; however, by the nineteenth century, poets and their poetry had reached a higher level of artistic expression and the art song’s development was on its way.

This explosion in poetry’s maturity and progress took place notably in Germany, then in France.

The “new” poetry made possible freer forms, more lyric vocal declamation, and increased expressiveness in the accompaniment.

These factors, fused with poems of high literary quality, caused the art song to flourish.

As this continued, a greater unity of tone and word was reached.

By the end of the nineteenth century, art song was a firmly established musical form.











































































17-C 미생물의 생물 다양성
The “hygiene hypothesis,” which proposes that kids today live in overly sanitized environments thanks to things like bleach and hand sanitizers, has been long used to explain the rise in children’s allergies.

The thought was that urban immune systems do not get exposed to enough bacteria and other microbes that prepare the immune system to be healthy.

This hypothesis is partly based on studies showing that children raised on farms have fewer allergies and asthma attacks.

Playing outside, digging for worms, planting vegetables, and essentially coming into contact with plenty of dirt and livestock are actually good things.

Not just good — essential!

Bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi play a critical role in developing and maintaining a healthy gut and immune system.

Another explanation for the rise in allergies has been called the “old friends hypothesis,” because allergic children lack a diversity of these friendly microbes in their guts.

To evaluate these theories, scientists compared microbial samples from an urban apartment to those from a rural farm.

Shockingly, they found that the two environments actually had similar numbers of microbes.

What differed, however, was the diversity of bacteria.

The microbial sample from the urban apartment was limited, while the microbial sample from the farm was rich with varied microbes.

A study of an Amazonian indigenous tribe free of chronic illness — isolated entirely from modern life — revealed the most diverse number of microbes ever documented in humans.

A healthy gut is filled with diverse microbes: the more kinds, the better.

Biodiversity makes the difference between balance and dysregulation.





















17-1~2 노인을 지칭하는 용어
Every group has its preferred name for itself.

Do we call someone an American Indian, an Aboriginal Person, or a Native American?

Groups generally adopt and promote a term that presents them in a positive way.

However, no acceptable term has evolved to refer to the older population, and anyone who writes about older people or speaks to groups about aging faces a dilemma.

What should we call people age 65 and over?

I have not found a term that all the older people I meet will accept.

This poses a dilemma for someone who needs to write about older people as a group.

Canadians, for example, feel comfortable with the term seniors, as in “senior centre.”

But in the United States, senior center directors want to find a new term for their organizations.

They feel that the word senior turns off new generations of older people.

Likewise, terms such as Gruppies (Graying Urban Professionals) seem silly.

M. Beck reports on several other options: “Whoopies (Well-Heeled Older People), OPALS (Older Persons with Active Lifestyles) and Grumpies (Grown-up Mature People).”

None of these has caught on.

“The real problem,” Beck says, “is that any term associated with old is still considered derogatory.”

And until we tackle and overcome our societal rejection of aging, someone will be offended no matter what term we choose.

If you know some older people, ask them what term they use to describe their age group.





















17-3~4 아이들이 자신이 속한 사회에 적응하는 과정
All children, dependent as they are on the help of the community, find themselves face to face with a world that gives and takes, that expects adaptation but satisfies their need for life.

The fulfillment of their instincts is hindered by obstacles that are painful to confront.

They realize at an early age that there are other human beings who are able to satisfy their needs more completely, and are better equipped for life.

Their psyche is born, one might say, in those childhood situations that demand integration in order to make normal life possible.

The psyche accomplishes this by evaluating each situation and negotiating it with the maximum satisfaction of instincts and the least possible discomfort.

In this way children learn to overvalue the size and strength required to open doors or move heavy objects, or the right of others to give commands and claim obedience.

The desire to grow, to become as strong as or even stronger than others, arises within them.

To dominate those around them becomes their chief purpose in life, since their elders, although they treat the younger children as inferior, are obligated to them because of their very weakness.

Two possibilities of action lie open.

On the one hand they can imitate the activities and methods they see the adults using, and on the other hand they can display their weakness, which is seen by these same adults as an inescapable demand for help.

We shall continually find this branching of psychological tendencies in children.



























18-C 문화에 대한 무지
Mark Thomas was unaware of his own biases when he invited Sheik Mohammed Al-Zahir, a high-level executive from Kuwait, to visit his hotel construction firm in Houston.

Thomas invited the executive in the hopes of finalizing contracts for hotel construction in Kuwait following the successful outcome of the Gulf War.

When Sheik Mohammed arrived at the airport in Houston, he found no one waiting for him, even though he had faxed Thomas his arrival plans.

Mohammed called Thomas, who told him that there was a regular shuttle that can take him to his hotel.

Thomas said that he would meet Mohammed in his room in two hours for dinner.

Thomas’s casualness astonished Mohammed, who had expected a limousine.

He was even more upset when he had to pass up the first two shuttles because his family, including his wife and six children, couldn’t all fit.

When Thomas arrived at Mohammed’s hotel room, the executive suite, he was surprised to hear the voices of children coming from the room.

He had not expected Mohammed’s children or wife, and had to change the dinner reservation from two people to nine.

Mohammed didn’t like the fact that his family was limited to the few items on the Chinese menu that weren’t prepared with pork or pork fat.

As Thomas had expected to discuss business that night, he had already made other plans for the following day.

He had to change these plans when he recognized that Mohammed was not going to discuss business in front of his wife and kids.

Thomas also had to ask his executive assistant to change her plans while Mohammed was in town, since Mohammed expected someone to show his wife and children around Houston and to take them shopping.

The meetings with Mohammed did not go as well as could be expected due to Thomas’s social mistakes.

On the final day of meetings, however, Mohammed indicated that upon his return to Kuwait he would fax Houston with a positive response, Insha Allah (God willing).

After three months, though, Thomas still had not heard from Sheik Mohammed, and cursed himself for his cultural ignorance.










18-1~3 제니 린드의 불우한 어린 시절과 그녀의 은인
Many years ago, in 1827, there lived in an almshouse in the old city of Stockholm a little six-year-old girl named Johanna, who had been put in charge of an old woman who, by the way, was none too kind to the girl in her care.

When her guardian went out to earn her daily pittance, this little maid was locked in the house to prevent her wandering about; and so the lonesome little Johanna was deprived of the bright sunshine and the sight of the beautiful trees and flowers so beloved by every Swedish heart.

One day she had worked over the little tasks assigned her until she was tired, and oh! how she longed to get out into the open air.

But no, the door was locked.

No wonder she poured out her childish grief in tears.

Soon her sole companion caught her eye, and, taking up her half-starved cat, she rocked her pet until they both fell asleep.

When she awoke the sun had gone well down.

Fearing the scolding she was sure to get when the old woman came home, the child caught up her work and began to sing in a sweet voice that seemed far too old for a girl of her age.

While she went on with her singing it happened that a lady of high rank was passing the house; and so struck was she by the clear, sweet tones that she stopped her carriage to listen.

On caroled the little songstress, perfectly unconscious of her audience, till she was startled by a knock at the door.

She could not open it, but some kind neighbor told the fair visitor about the little prisoner.

The kind-hearted lady came back afterward and secured the child admission to a school and later to the Royal Theater classes.

As the girl grew older her talent developed, until as the “Swedish Nightingale” she was known the world over.

Do you recognize in her — Jenny Lind?






















18-4~6 매일 거울을 보는 소크라테스의 일상
One day, a student visited Socrates for daily lessons.

Upon entering the room, he saw Socrates standing in front of the mirror.

An ugly man staring at the mirror was an amusing sight for the boy.

He tried to control his laughter but Socrates caught him.

He went up to the student and said, “My child, I know what makes you laugh.”

The student felt a little awkward.

He knew that the great philosopher had caught him in a foolish act.

Without uttering a word in reply, he stood still in front of Socrates with his head hanging low as a sign of regret.

“Seeing an ugly man standing in front of the mirror made you laugh. But this is not the first time I stood in front of the mirror. This is a part of my daily routine,” Socrates explained.

The student was too embarrassed to say anything.

He felt as if he had committed a crime.

Socrates kept his hand on the student’s head and said, “The mirror reminds me of my ugliness. And I make all efforts to hide it with my good work and efforts towards the well-being of society, so that people look at the good side of me.”

“Sir, does that mean beautiful people don’t need to have a look in the mirror?” the student asked.

“Why not, my son? In fact they must look in the mirror more often,” he said.

“Just as my good deeds work as a cover for my outward appearance, bad deeds cover up the beauty of beautiful people. One must be known for his good deeds and beautiful thoughts,” Socrates continued.

“Would you like to have poison, if it’s served in a bowl made of gold?” Socrates smiled and asked. “

No,” the student answered promptly.

“That’s right. No one wants to drink poison even if it is served in a golden bowl. But divine nectar served in an earthen plate is dear to all,” Socrates explained.

Thus, the student received the best lesson of his life from his beloved teacher.












21-18 기증품 전시 불가 통보
Dear Mr. Collins,
Thank you for your recent donation of family heirlooms to the Rolling Meadow History Museum.

We are very grateful to all of our supporters in the community.

I am sorry, though, to have to inform you that the manuscripts and paintings you gave to us are not originals and not of significant historical interest to be held or displayed by the museum.

We hope you will continue to treasure them in the family.

I have asked our shipping department to get in touch with you to arrange the return of the items.

Again, thank you for thinking of us.

We hope you will continue to be involved in the programs of the museum.
Sincerely,
Jane Wise










21-19 허락 없이 자신의 옷을 입은 것에 대한 심경
Rachelle walked into the door of our apartment wearing my black short skirt and my favorite blue sweater.

I saw her and thought to myself, “Those clothes sure look familiar.”

Right away she announces, “I borrowed your clothes. I hope that’s OK?”

I was shocked into numbness at her audacity, but that lasted about two seconds, and before she was out of the hallway, I was boiling.

“No, it’s not OK! I want you to ask me before you borrow my things.”

I didn’t yell, but she knew that I was unhappy.

I finished eating my lunch and wondered why she thought that it was OK to walk into my room and take my clothes without checking with me.

Later when I saw that she had thrown my clothes on the bed, I was bubbling up again.











21-20 과학 논문 작성 시 유의점
Science and reasoning know no language barriers; they are a language of their own.

And this language is universal, regardless of the tongue in which you normally express yourself.

If you are not a native English speaker you are not at a disadvantage relative to those who are.

So, get the structure right first.

Then, even if you need help later to modify the syntax or a few words, it should be only a minor exercise.

By contrast, if you distract yourself and compromise the logical construction of your article by attempting to write flawless English from the beginning you will have little chance of completing a good piece of scientific writing.

No amount of correction of the English can convert a poorly structured paper into a good one.











21-21 약한 유대 관계가 갖는 힘
Organization survivors have mastered what sociologists call the “weak tie”: a friendly yet casual social connection.

Sociologist Mark Granovetter found that 56 percent of people he talked to found their jobs through a personal connection.

Nothing surprising here.

But of those personal connections, most were described as “weak ties”: people who were seen “only occasionally” or “rarely.”

When it comes to finding new jobs, new information, or new ideas of any sort, weak ties are always more important than strong ties.

Your friends, after all, occupy the same world that you do.

Your acquaintances, by definition, occupy a much different world and are more likely to know something you don’t.

To capture this paradox, Granovetter coined the wonderful term “the strength of the weak tie.”

Acquaintances represent a source of “social power,” expanding your reputation into areas where you might not otherwise be known.

The more acquaintances you have, the more powerful (and visible) you are.





21-22 기분이 비언어적 표현의 판단에 미치는 영향
One of the most difficult and demanding tasks in everyday social life is to decide whether a person is truthful or deceptive, and nonverbal expressions are notoriously hard to judge.

Mood effects may also influence people’s tendency to accept or reject inherently ambiguous interpersonal communications as genuine or false.

For example, when we asked happy or sad participants to judge the genuineness of positive, neutral, and negative facial expressions, those in negative moods were significantly less likely to accept facial expressions as genuine than were people in the neutral or happy condition.

We also asked happy or sad judges to determine the genuineness of emotional facial expressions displaying the six basic emotions (i.e., anger, fear, disgust, happiness, surprise, and sadness).

Once again, negative mood reduced and positive mood increased people’s tendency to accept the facial displays as genuine, consistent with the more attentive and accommodative processing style associated with negative moods.








21-23 공상의 역할
The fantasies of children and grown-ups, sometimes called daydreams, are always concerned with the future.

These ‘castles in the air’ are the goal of their activity, built up in fictional form as models for real activity.

Studies of childhood fantasies show clearly that the striving for power plays the predominant role.

Children express their ambition in their daydreams.

Most of their fantasies begin with the words ‘when I grow up’, and so on.

There are many adults who live as though they too were not yet grown up.

The clear emphasis on the striving for power indicates again that the psyche can develop only when a certain goal has been set; in our civilization, this goal involves social recognition and significance.

An individual never stays long with any neutral goal, for the communal life of humankind is accompanied by constant self-evaluation giving rise to the desire for superiority and the hope of success in competition.

The fantasies of children almost always involve situations in which the child exercises power.






21-25 빌헬름 분트의 생애
Born in Baden (now Mannheim) Germany, Wilhelm Wundt was the fourth child in a family with a long history of intellectual achievement.

His father was a Lutheran minister.

The young Wundt was allowed little time for play, as he was pushed through a rigorous educational regime, attending a strict Catholic school from the age of 13.

He went on to study at the universities of Berlin, Tubingen, and Heidelberg, graduating in medicine in 1856.

Two years later, Wundt became assistant to the physician Hermann von Helmholtz, who was famous for his work on visual perception.

While at Heidelberg, Wundt started teaching the world’s first course in experimental psychology, and in 1879 opened the first psychology laboratory.

Wundt wrote over 490 works and was probably the world’s most prolific scientific writer.









21-28 개인 간 의사소통의 특징
Most person-to-person communications are characterized by common features.

For example, you are probably not interested in engaging in intimate or private exchanges with everyone you meet.

Instead, you are selective in initiating or responding to communications.

Communications between people are not isolated events; rather, they have a systemic quality because of time, situation, social class, education, culture, personal histories, and other influences that are beyond individuals’ control but that nonetheless affect how they interact with each other.

Communications within a given relationship (between you and a close friend) are also unique, possessing special patterns, vocabulary, even rhythms.

When you become close to someone, you may establish particular roles and rules for how you interact with each other that are distinct from the roles or rules used in other relationships.

For example, close friends often share private or “inside” jokes with each other which a bystander simply would not understand.








21-29 면전에서 문 닫기 기법
The door-in-the-face (DITF) technique involves making a large request that is likely to be turned down in order to increase the chances that people will agree to a smaller request later.

The strategy’s name is derived from the expectation that an initial request will be quickly rejected.

For example, a wife who wants to coax her frugal husband into buying a $30,000 sports car might begin by proposing purchasing a $40,000 sports car.

After talking his wife out of the more expensive car, the $30,000 price tag may look quite reasonable to him.

For the DITF to work, there must be no delay between the two requests.

Gueguen, Jacob, and Meineri found that restaurant customers who declined to order dessert were more likely to order coffee or tea when the waitress proposed a beverage immediately rather than a few minutes later.











21-30 말보로 공작의 돈에 대한 집착
The Duke of Marlborough’s notorious love of money remained with him through his life.

In his last years he was once playing piquet with a certain Dean Jones, with stakes of sixpence a game.

When they stopped, Marlborough was one game ahead and he asked the dean for his sixpence.

The dean said he had no silver at that moment, but would pay the duke next time he saw him.

Marlborough replied that he needed the sixpence to pay for a sedan chair to take him home, and made such a fuss that the dean eventually went to the trouble of sending a servant out to get change for a guinea.

Marlborough took his sixpence and departed.

The dean watched him leave and walk down the street, conserving his winnings by going home on foot.














21-31 전기의 주관성
It has been argued - especially in the modernist period when an authoritative, public style for biography was being reacted against - that all biography is a form of autobiography.

Even biographers who resist the notion that the story they are telling has anything to do with them, and put themselves in the narrative as little as possible, have to admit that their choice of subject has been made for a reason, and that there is no such thing as an entirely objective treatment.

We write from a certain position, constructed by our history, nationality, race, gender, class, education, beliefs.

More specifically, there is likely to be some shared experience between the writer and the subject.

A drama critic might well write the life of an actor, a musicologist of a composer.

It would be hard, if not impossible, to write a life of a mountaineer or a gardener, a chemist or an architect, with no experience, or at least no understanding at all, of those professions.









21-32 명백한 책임 분담이 가져오는 긍정적 효과
Good practice guidelines suggest that introducing a clear division of responsibilities results in better outcomes.

Often it works best if certain functions are shifted out of waste management to other municipal organizations, even if this contradicts the principle of coherent institutional structure.

For example, in the modernization of municipal waste management in Hungary during the early 1990s, functions such as managing parking meters, operating the nursery for street plantings, and managing sport facilities were shifted to another municipal entity, giving the municipal waste company a clearer mission and focus.

When a municipality decides to stop operating its collection system, for instance, and contract it out to private operators, it may close its operational division, but the functions of supervisor, comptroller, regulator and adjudicator still remain.

This is because public cleanliness and public health are ‘public goods’, and the local authority holds the responsibility for ensuring that there is an integrated sustainable (solid) waste management system, which delivers them.












21-33 사람들이 가진 에너지의 영향력
Research has shown that proactive people have more positive energy flowing through their systems than reactive or inactive types.

And there is a direct correlation between the amount of energy flowing through your wires and your influence on those in your presence.

Positive energy has a weird influence that defies the laws of physics.

In Positive Energy, Judith Orloff wrote, “I believe that the most profound transformations can take place only on an energetic level.”

This psychiatrist discovered that “The more positive energy we give off, the more we’ll magnetize to us.

Ditto for negativity.

It works like this: Passion attracts passion. Rage attracts rage.

The explanation: We are all subtle energy transmitters.”

The moral is that life is way too short to spend with losers as they will influence us without us even knowing it.

Those dark clouds hovering over negative types impact everything they touch and everyone that comes into their sphere of influence.

Be careful. They rob others of their energy without them even knowing it.



21-34 포유류의 지배 계급 형성의 의의
Some species of mammals form social groups consisting of many individuals.

Within this group, fighting is often limited by forming a dominance hierarchy.

Within the group, each pair of individuals will come to a mutual agreement about which will be “boss” over the other.

This agreement is reached during their initial encounters, and determines which individual will back down during future encounters.

From then on, when that pair of individuals approaches an item of mutual interest, like food, the higher ranking individual takes the item and the other moves on.

If each encounter instead resulted in the death of one of the group members then pretty soon there would be no members left and the species would disappear from the earth.

When the members of a species do not fight to the death then those members are more likely to live long enough to have children.







21-35 반어적 표현의 이해
In modern usage, linguistic irony commonly refers to speech incidents in which the intended meaning of the words is contrary to their literal interpretation or to the expected meaning.

The ability to catch on to and appreciate linguistic irony comes fairly late in language acquisition.

Unless speakers give clues with their body language, their tone of voice, and their facial expressions, children and unsophisticated adults may interpret ironic statements as either mistakes or lies.

In contrast, sophisticated adults know that irony is a form of “lying” that gives itself away through elements of playfulness.

When ironic statements are delivered in a deadpan style, they are all the funnier to the listeners who catch on.


















21-36 고용주가 대학 졸업생이 갖추고 있기를 바라는 능력
Each year, the National Association of Colleges and Employers asks employers which abilities they want college graduates to possess.

At or near the top of that list each year is “analytical reasoning,” a kind of critical thinking skill.

Yet accounting majors might ask, “Aren’t mathematical and business skills more important for a career as an accountant?”

Likewise, nursing majors might suggest that knowledge of medicine is more important for them.

Although accountants and nurses obviously need these skills, they must also have a full complement of higher-order thinking skills.

People in these kinds of careers must be prepared to solve difficult problems by applying their knowledge to new situations.

In addition, they must be able to decide which new ideas they should accept or reject and be able to justify their decisions.

On any given day, people in these careers, and most of the careers you may be considering after college, must be able to effectively use critical thinking skills.





21-37 언어군마다 다른 언어 표현 방식
When we state that there are approximately seven thousand mutually unintelligible languages spoken in the world today, we are implying that they all have unique vocabularies, grammar systems, and syntax.

But each language group also varies in linguistic style.

For example, some linguistic groups send explicit messages directly, whereas other groups communicate indirectly by sending more implicit messages.

In Canada and the United States, where words and eloquence are highly valued, people strive to communicate in a way that is precise, straightforward, and unambiguous.

We are expected to “tell it like it is” and avoid “beating around the bush.”

Communication in some Asian cultures, by way of contrast, is noticeably more ambiguous, implicit, and inexact.

With much less emphasis placed on words, many Asian cultures rely heavily on nonverbal cues and social context to derive meaning.








21-38 이집트 예술의 기념비성
“Monumental” is a word that comes very close to expressing the basic characteristic of Egyptian art.

Never before and never since has the quality of monumentality been achieved as fully as it was in Egypt.

The reason for this is not the external size and massiveness of their works, although the Egyptians admittedly achieved some amazing things in this respect.

Many modern structures surpass those of Egypt in terms of purely physical size.

But massiveness has nothing to do with monumentality.

An Egyptian sculpture no bigger than a person’s hand is more monumental than that gigantic pile of stones that constitutes the war memorial in Leipzig, for instance.

Monumentality is not a matter of external weight, but of “inner weight.”

This inner weight is the quality which Egyptian art possesses to such a degree that everything in it seems to be made of primeval stone, like a mountain range, even if it is only a few inches across or carved in wood.









21-39 조제분유를 먹은 아기의 건강
The World Health Organization has carried out a massive six-year study of babies in several continents, who are breast-fed and born to non-smoking mothers, with startling results.

Growth charts used to measure progress were largely based on babies fed on formula milk (bottle-fed babies) and are wrong.
Babies who are breast-fed are lighter by around 7 percent than formula-fed babies.

In fact, some babies thought to be underweight were transferred to formula milk in an attempt to put on weight.

Many babies were probably not underweight, and in fact the bonny, bouncing formula babies are overweight and even in some cases obese.

This has serious implications, as the rate of weight gain in childhood is reckoned to be a key determinant of whether teenagers and adults suffer from obesity, heart disease and Type II diabetes in later life.

There is now an urgent need for the international growth charts to be rewritten.






21-40 체온 상승에 따른 시간 인식의 변화
The American physiologist Hudson Hoagland saw scientific mysteries everywhere and felt it his calling to solve them.

Once, when his wife had a fever, Hoagland drove to the drugstore to get her aspirin.

He was quick about it, but when he returned, his normally reasonable wife complained angrily that he had been slow as molasses.

Hoagland wondered if her fever had distorted her internal clock, so he took her temperature, had her estimate the length of a minute, gave her the aspirin, and continued to have her estimate the minutes as her temperature dropped.

When her temperature was back to normal he plotted the logarithm and found it was linear.

Later, he continued the study in his laboratory, artificially raising and lowering the temperatures of test subjects until he was certain he was right: higher body temperatures make the body clock go faster, and his wife had not been unjustifiably cranky.









21-41~42 부모와 아이의 협력적 스토리텔링에서의 문화 차이
Peggy Miller has analyzed cultural differences in self-perceptions in terms of differences in the type of collaborative storytelling that characterized parent-child interaction.

In an analysis of storytelling involving both European American and Taiwanese families, she found that quite different attention was given to positive and negative behaviors in the stories that children were encouraged to construct and retain about themselves.

These differences are particularly evident in stories about misdeeds.

For example, Taiwanese parents and their children are more likely than their American counterparts to make the child’s present misbehavior a central part of the story the child tells, but to relate this behavior to past transgressions as well.

Thus, the self-stories that are likely to emerge from these parent-child co-narrations were likely to be self-critical and to focus on the child’s responsibility for the misdeed.

Furthermore, by relating the child’s current misdeed to earlier ones, the stories encouraged the development of a more general conceptualization of the child’s undesirable behavior that had implications for his or her moral character.

However, American parent-child co-narratives were more often characterized by a “self-favorability” bias.

These stories focused much less frequently on a child’s past transgression, and when they did, the transgression was treated humorously, portraying the child in a positive light despite his or her misdeed.

For example, one story concerned a child who had written on the wall and lied about it.

Although the mother acknowledged the seriousness of the child’s negative act, she at the same time made light of it in helping the child communicate about the act to others.


























21-43~45 데이브의 파도 타기 경험
Dave had always loved the ocean.

When he received a board as a present, he couldn’t wait to get to the surf.

But when he did, something scary happened.

Dave thought he knew the water well, but when he was on the board it was different from when he was swimming.

The board began to drift.

Dave was caught in the current and felt powerless against it.

He hung on until the current eased, leaving him “out the back”. far from shore and behind terrifying, mountainous waves.

He gripped the board tighter. Just then another surfer confidently paddled up beside him.

“Can I help you?” he asked. Dave recognized him. It was Surfer Mike.

His picture had been in the paper last season because he’d risked his own life to save a drowning kid.

“I can help you back to shore,” he continued, “but you have to help yourself as well. You need to let go of that fear and relax a little.”

Dave wasn’t sure how he could relax. He felt secure gripping the sturdy board.

If he let go, would he fall off and be alone in the water?

Those waves looked big and scary. He looked at Surfer Mike.

Surfer Mike nodded encouragingly, and Dave began to relax his grip.

“Good,” said Surfer Mike. “Don’t try to stand at first. Let the wave pick you up, then shift your weight forward on the board. As you start to build up speed move your weight back until you feel balanced, then just lie there and enjoy the ride.”

When Dave reached the shallows he was bursting with excitement.

Dave did a few more rides with Surfer Mike at his side and he was on his feet.

“Looks like you don’t need me any longer,” said Surfer Mike. “You are a natural.”

Dave thanked Surfer Mike. Afterward, as he lay on the beach watching the signs of the current in the water and looking at the size of the waves out back, he realized they hadn’t changed.

They were the same as before he’d been caught in the current.

It was Dave who was different. stronger and more confident.

He had a new feeling of strength and confidence.

He knew he could do it again, and maybe even try new beaches or bigger waves.
22-18 업체 소개 부탁
Dear Sir or Madam,
We are wholesalers of fine leather goods.

We have been in business for eight years and are interested in expanding our product line of imported wallets for men and women.

Would you please help us by providing the names and addresses of any trade organizations in Colombia that represent producers of leather goods, and any printed materials you have about doing business in Colombia, and about the Colombian leather industry in particular?

We expect to be purchasing 1,000 wallets per month within six months.

If you know of any producers in Colombia who have an existing product line, or who would be able to manufacture to our specification, please include their names, full addresses, and phone and fax numbers.

We look forward to a mutually beneficial business relationship with producers in Colombia.

Thank you in advance for your gracious help in assisting us to locate suppliers.
Sincerely yours,
James Pitt




22-19 칼라와의 보트 여행
I put my backpack in the boat, then looked around, making sure we hadn’t forgotten anything.

Then I got in and sat in the rowing seat with great expectations, while Karla had made herself comfortable on the seat in front of mine.

She said with a big smile, “I feel really great! Let’s get going.”

It was plain to see she was excited for the adventure of the day, and I had to admit, I was excited as well.

I untied the rope from the dock anchor, and as I pushed the boat away, my dog Hobo decided he was coming with us.

He skidded as he landed between our seats, but caught his balance, then sat panting, with a smile on his face as he looked up at me.

I patted him on top of his head then said, “So you decided to come along.”

Hobo whined a little, almost as though he understood me, then he turned to Karla, who was laughing loudly at his antics.











22-20 다른 사람에 의해 영향받는 감정적 평가
We have already known how our emotions often take someone else’s experiences as their object.

It also seems that we take into account their evaluations and interpretations when making our own appraisals of other emotional objects.

For example, we may enjoy a comedy film less when our companions are evidently offended by its content, or become more anxious partly because those sharing our fate seem to find the situation worrying.

In effect, we calibrate perceptions of emotional meaning against the apparent perspective of key others.

Because these processes of social appraisal work in both directions, others are also affected by our own apparent evaluations.

Indeed, sometimes we may only arrive at emotional conclusions as a consequence of discussion with each other, or by otherwise registering mutual reactions (in smiles, frowns, or diverted gazes).

In either of these cases, the appraisals shaping emotions are influenced by a fundamentally interpersonal process.






22-21 학습 단계를 고려한 수학 개념의 학습
Plenty of mathematicians will tell you that learning procedures mechanically is bad. that you should always be striving for a deep understanding.

This is a well-intentioned claim, but it is a bit unrealistic.

For a start, there are plenty of situations in which good understanding is not really accessible to you at a given stage.

Limits, for example, appear in some Calculus courses, but are treated fairly informally.

In upper-level courses, you will learn a formal definition of limit, and you will learn how to apply it and how to use it to prove various theorems.

But the definition is logically complex and, if you are like most people, it will cost you some effort to learn how to work with it.

When you can, you will recognize that your understanding has improved, but you will probably think that your professors were right not to introduce it earlier.












22-22 심리적 스트레스가 생기는 이유
The psychological perspective on stress places emphasis on the organism’s perception and evaluation of the potential harm posed by a stimulus.

The perception of threat arises when the demands imposed upon an individual are perceived to exceed his or her felt ability to cope with those demands.

This imbalance gives rise to the experience of stress and to a stress response that may be physiological and/or behavioral in nature.

Psychological stress then is not defined solely in terms of the stimulus condition or solely in terms of the response variables but rather in terms of the transaction between the person and the environment.

It involves interpretation of the meaning of the event and the interpretation of the adequacy of coping resources.

In short, the psychological perspective on stress assumes that stress arises totally out of persons’ perceptions (whether accurate or inaccurate) of their relationship to their environment.









22-23 셀레늄에 의한 수은 독성 효과 감소
Accumulation of mercury, especially in its organic form, is a well-recognized problem for populations whose diet includes a high intake of fish.

However, there is evidence that fish that accumulate mercury also accumulate selenium in equivalent amounts and the simultaneous presence of the selenium is believed to be able to counteract the toxic effects of the mercury.

A study of a population of Inuit sealers in East Greenland whose daily intake of marine foods was made up of 200 g of fish and 180 g of seal meat, found that blood mercury levels often exceeded 200μg/l, a level regarded as the lowest concentrations observed in clinical methyl mercury intoxication.

In spite of these high levels of mercury, there were no signs of toxicity.

This was attributed to the presence of high levels of selenium in the fish and seal meat consumed by the sealers and their families.














22-25 사진 작가 안셀 아담스
Born and raised in San Francisco, Ansel Adams taught himself to play piano at age 12 and dreamed of becoming a concert performer.

He even quit school to pursue music full-time.

In his late teens, however, he made his first trip to Yosemite National Park and was awestruck by the grandeur and beauty of the Sierra Nevada.

He returned home and begged his parents to get him a camera so he could capture all the outdoor splendors he’d seen.

They bought him one, and Adams’s time on the piano bench rapidly declined.

Toting his Kodak No. 1 Box Brownie, Adams hiked, camped, climbed, and snapped hundreds of photographs of the park, which he used as records of his journeys.

He joined the Sierra Club and spent four summers as the keeper of its LeConte Memorial Lodge.

The club published regular bulletins, and in 1924 Adams saw a chance to turn his photography pastime into professional work.






22-28 관찰 기법
Some observational techniques are said to be unobtrusive, which means that those being studied do not know that they are being observed.

Modern standards of ethical research, however, emphasize the principle of “informed consent,” which has made truly unobtrusive observation unacceptable except in settings that are public and where no one has the obligation to introduce himself or herself (e.g., airport waiting lounges).

In most participant observational settings, however, it would be highly unethical for someone who is actively participating in a community to be conducting observations for his or her research without informing the people and giving them the option to remove themselves from the research.

Participant observers must also decide the extent to which they want to be members of the communities they study.

They should also consider the extent to which members of the community will expect them to become members of the group.














22-29 개발과 자연 보호의 상호성
In some cases development may be necessary for the conservation and/or preservation of natural resources.

Establishing a conservation easement in a rural area, for example, typically requires financial resources.

Conservation programs can be very costly and many of these costs may be forced on local communities.

Thus, it may be more difficult for a very poor area to conserve its natural amenities.

There is a large body of literature suggesting that the poor are likely to exploit their natural environment if there are no other opportunities to improve their livelihoods.

Thus, many conservation programs today understand the need to provide economic opportunities for rural residents in order to build a successful conservation program.

In this instance, there is a mutual relationship between the environment and jobs.










22-30 꽃의 역사성
Before recorded history, all cultures collected, used, and admired flowers not only for utilitarian purposes, but for their elusive fragrances and ephemeral forms that, ironically, symbolized recurring vigor and even immortality.

They have seduced us, exploiting entire civilizations to spread their seeds.

We give and receive flowers as tributes, and to commemorate life’s many triumphs and everyday events.

They accompany us from cradle to grave.

As spices, they flavor our foods and beverages.

We harvest their delicate scents, combining them into expensive mixtures, for perfuming our bodies to evoke passion.

Some yield a woven textile for every purpose, like the valuable fibers surrounding cottonseeds that began their development inside the ovary of a fertilized flower.














22-31 노래가 가진 시간적 한계
One of the truly unique properties of song is that it is usually a short musical form.

The average length of a song is about three minutes, although some songs can be much shorter or longer than that; Ned Rorem’s thirty second “I Am Rose” is one example of an extremely short song while Richard Strauss’ “Im Abendrot” is about seven minutes in length.

The limited duration of most songs places a dramatic impetus on composers.

A song composer only has a short amount of time in which to create a complete story for the listener.

A composer needs to create a full-scale three-act drama within a relatively short amount of time.

A great song should have a clear beginning, middle, and end both musically and dramatically.

It should have dramatic and musical cohesiveness and stylistic interest created by the composer.









22-32 영화를 공부한다는 개념
Amongst some people who attend the cinema and/or watch DVDs on a regular basis there is a certain resistance to the idea of ‘studying films’.

For people taking this approach, watching films at the cinema is seen as an especially intense form of entertainment that offers the chance of escapist fantasies that will only be undermined or devalued in some way by analysis.

After-the-event discussion of the emotional experience offered by one film compared to another is encouraged and indeed is an important part of the whole experience as far as these enthusiasts are concerned.

The physical attributes (whether of strength or beauty or some other feature) of one star are readily compared with similar attributes in other stars.

The thrills provided in one film are assessed against the thrills provided in another.

Discussion and debate over the relative merits of one star over another, or one film over another, is endlessly recycled.

However, engagement in an academic way with film is seen as detrimental to the experience itself.









22-33 미술 교육
Understanding art involves the establishment of linkages between areas of knowledge to which it is related.

For many generations, art educators strove for subject-matter autonomy and wanted to teach art for its own sake in isolation from other subjects constituting the culture.

Moreover, art often is taught in isolation from aspects of itself.

Students tend to learn studio technical skills, but not the history of the media they are using, the social needs that were met by the invention of these media, or the cultural meanings expressed by the work’s symbolic content.

They might learn to describe works in terms of their formal elements, but rarely can they explain how these function to contribute to a work’s expressive power or how the expressed content reflects the perceived realities that fit its cultural location.

They may know about the effect of warm and cool colors from experiences in a painting class, but not recognize how such colors create meanings within works of art by others.









22-34 타국에서 느끼는 고국과 돌아온 다음에 느끼는 고국
While trying to overcome the original dose of culture shock, many U.S. businesspeople tend to embellish (in some cases, grossly exaggerate) their fond memories of life in the United States.

They remember that things are better made, cheaper, and cleaner and people are more efficient, polite, and competent.

But upon reentry to the United States, many of these myths are shattered.

One of the by-products of a successful adjustment to the host culture is that our old notions of our culture will never again be the same.

After one lives for a while in Switzerland, the United States no longer seems to be the epitome of cleanliness; when compared with the Japanese, the typical American seems loud and boisterous; after returning from an extended stay in Germany you become painfully aware of how unprepared most Americans are to engage in an informed political discussion; after a stay in a developing nation, people in the United States seem rushed and impersonal.

Somehow home isn’t what one had remembered.










22-35 항공 교통관제에서의 이중 언어 사용
There have been several cases where the case for bilingual air traffic control has been strongly argued, and sometimes this has led to a difficult political situation (such as the strike by pilots and air traffic controllers over a bilingual policy in Quebec, Canada, in 1976).

Supporters of bilingual air traffic control stress the fact that not all pilots have a good command of English.

They may have a poor pronunciation, which is made even more difficult for a controller to understand by the presence of background aircraft noise and the effects of stress on the voice.

Pilots also may have difficulty understanding a controller, for the same reasons.

Under such circumstances, it has been argued, it may actually be safer if both parties are allowed to communicate fluently with each other in a language they both understand well.












22-36 고유가의 극복
Remember the record nominal high gas prices in the summer of 2008?

While a lot of people felt the pain of higher prices at the pump, there was no panic in the streets or lines at the gas pumps. Why?

The response of buyers and sellers to changes in gasoline prices illustrates the importance of incentives and the role of time in the adjustment process.

In 2008 gasoline prices rose dramatically.

In response, consumers immediately eliminated unimportant trips and did more carpooling.

Gradually, however, they also shifted to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars to reduce their gasoline consumption further.

At the same time suppliers of petroleum, the raw material of gasoline, increased their drilling and intensified their search for new oil fields.

In response to market-based incentives, the supply of petroleum, a resource some predicted would be exhausted by 2000, today stands at 1.343 trillion barrels.









22-37 인공조명 축소를 통한 에너지 절약
Lighting goes to the heart of the architectural enterprise.

Electric lighting can also account for the largest single primary energy load in buildings; thus any reduced reliance on artificial light can make significant energy savings.

This can be achieved by displacing the need for artificial light with daylight.

Daylight factors of 2 per cent or more can reduce energy use for lighting by in the order of 60 per cent, compared with a totally artificially lit space.

However, to achieve daylight levels throughout a building requires careful planning.

Clearly, deep-plan designs will not achieve daylighting deep into the building.

Typically, a perimeter depth of 6m, or twice the floor-to-ceiling height, can be potentially day lit.

Thus, buildings that are deeper than 12m may require more artificial light.

However, the darker central areas are often assigned as circulation space, requiring only low levels of light.

Other darker plan areas can be occupied by secondary spaces, such as services, toilets and storage areas.




22-38 공연자에 의해 완성되는 노래
A song does not come to life until performers take it off the written page.

For better or for worse, the composer has very little control over how individuals will interpret his work.

Composers make many markings on the written page to communicate their intentions for a song for singers and pianists but those intentions are not always honored.

It may seem that clear key and time signatures, tempo and other markings would be enough, but singers and pianists do not always strictly adhere to markings.

An authentic performance of a song also depends on the difficulty of the piece and the abilities and limitations of the performers.

For example, if a young singer were trying to perform a late Debussy song and had never sung in French, the challenges of the language could prevent her from mastering the nuances of the piece.

Vocal deficiencies can draw attention away from the music and to the singer himself; for this reason, it is critically important that singers perform music that is appropriate to their age and abilities and the same is true for pianists.






22-39 지식과 이해의 차이
The difference between knowledge and understanding is decisive.

Though the discovery and production of knowledge can be difficult enough, the process of understanding entails a much more intimate, and thus also more complex, involvement and participation in what is understood.

As we enter the domain of understanding, we move past a description of things (the surface perception of them) to their explanation, the discovery of the workings of things, their sense, direction, integrity, and purpose as well as their connectedness with others.

At a bare minimum, understanding requires our interaction with and participation in things in a way that knowing about them simply does not.

Wisdom reflects this patient, educative experience and practice informed by basic care and affection.

It manifests itself in persons who understand who they are in relation to the many others that inform and intersect their living.

It results in a life of propriety, a life in which the patterns of individual existing resonate and harmonize with the existence of others.







22-40 창의적 인지 접근법
Concentrating on increasing your own content knowledge and developing the intellectual skills to use that knowledge effectively may yield great benefits.

The creative cognition approach, as developed by Ronald Finke, Steven Smith and myself, provides an organizing framework for thinking about the interplay between knowledge and skills.

Within that approach, creativity is assumed to emerge from the application of ordinary, fundamental cognitive processes to existing knowledge structures which results in ideas that are novel and useful.

It is important to note that the processes, which are most involved in producing such ideas, are ones that are within the capabilities of most, if not all, normal people.

In effect, the potential for creative thought is normative, rather than rare for humans, which is why we have made a lot of incredible innovative progress.

Many species use and even modify tools, but none other than humans have manipulated and built upon their knowledge about early versions of tools to develop new ones that ultimately lead them to escape the physical bonds of our home planet.







22-41~42 뮤지션의 성공에 대한 정의
One of the worst terms musicians use to describe themselves is “unsigned band.”

There is no other self-professed title that does more harm to a musician’s image.

This title tells potential fans that you aren’t someone who should be paid attention to yet.

It says that you are an amateur who hasn’t been deemed ready for the world’s attention.

It says no gatekeeper has endorsed you and no one thinks you are good enough to “be signed.”

You describe yourself as being unsuccessful in your goal, since you don’t think of yourself as successful until someone else says you are.

Instead, tell the world you are an “independent musician” or even just “a band.”

There is no need to classify yourself with a term associated with being an amateur.

If you decide one day to sign to a record label, that’s great because you decided to do so (remember, DIY means decide it yourself, not do it yourself).

Until then, you can be signed to your own label, showing everyone your ambition at the same time.

You are making things happen for yourself and if someone else wants to come on board and help. well, that can be discussed.

In the meantime you are making things happen on your own terms, which is an attractive quality in the eyes of potential team members and music fans.





























22-43~45 얼어붙은 펌프 손잡이에 얽힌 일화
It was in the fall that Dad had gotten a new pump.

We had drawn the water from a well before, and the pump was a wonderful thing.

You just had to move the handle up and down, and the water came gushing out.

The whole family enjoyed that pump.

The weather had gotten cold early that year, and we had frost almost every night in October.

One evening our neighbor Mr. Hobbs stopped by to visit.

He and Dad sat in the kitchen talking about the crops.

I was always anxious to enter into the conversation, but since I didn’t know much about crops, there seemed to be nothing for me to say.

However, I thought of something I did know about.

“Mr. Hobbs,” I said, “did you know we have a new pump?”

“No,” said Mr. Hobbs. “Do you really, now?”

I knew he was just teasing. A few minutes later Mr. Hobbs rose to leave.

As he opened the door, he said with a laugh, “Well, Mabel, don’t put your tongue on that pump handle!”

That seemed a strange thing to say. Why would I want to do that? I concluded that he was teasing again.

Several days later I came out of the house to find everything covered with new snow.

The pump handle was white with frost, and as I stood looking at it, I remembered Mr. Hobbs’s remark.

Since he was only fooling, there was no reason why I shouldn’t lick the frost off the handle. So I put my tongue on the pump handle.

I knew right away that Mr. Hobbs hadn’t been fooling. My tongue was stuck fast!

Fortunately, Jensen was coming from the barn and saw me. He saw the predicament I was in.

“Wait right here,” he said. “I’ll go get Mom.” Mom came running out to look.

“Don’t pull on it, Mabel,” she said. “I’ll get some warm water.”

Mom was soon back with a dipper of warm water.

“Now this will hurt,” she said, “but it’s the only way to get your tongue loose. What a silly thing for you to do! Didn’t you know that anything wet sticks to cold metal?”

I hadn’t known, but I did then. The warm water loosened my tongue, but some of the skin came off.

I begged Dad not to tell Mr. Hobbs what I had done, and he promised me that no one would hear about it.
23-18 놀이공원의 입장료 환불
Dear Mr. Smee:
I am enclosing two tickets to Fantasyland, for which I paid a total of $135.63 on May 9, 2018.

I ask for a refund for the full amount paid because of my bad experiences at your park on that day.

Two of your employees dressed as clowns went out of their way to give my son frightful experiences from which he may never recover.

Both times, I saw the clown coming and steered away from him as much as I could.

But they were relentless in their drive to cause terror.

During the second attack, my son soiled himself, something he hasn’t done for over two years.

Of course we weren’t going to stay after that, so we retreated to our car, my son with his hoodie pulled tight over his face.
Sincerely,
Emily Swan









23-19 피스 리버 마을 공동체로 가는 길
The landscape became more spectacular with each mile traveled... all around us, gently rolling hills of patchwork farmland, each a different shade of pastel - brown, blue, yellow, green, and red - wide open spaces and a sky without boundaries.

I had the sense we were leaving one world behind and entering another - one of unsurpassed beauty, magic, and mystery.

It was like a painting of a dream, and it all came to a climactic crescendo when we reached the incomparable Peace River Valley and the lovely Peace River that flowed through it.

Its source was Lake Athabasca, 400 miles to the northeast and it had come here to grace this valley.

Approaching the community of Peace River, nestled on a green rolling hill overlooking the valley and river, I was overcome with intense feelings of joy.

It was a scene worthy of any landscape painter’s brush.













23-20 자연 보호의 의미
As nature without human intervention, wilderness does not need nature conservation.

When an active nature conservationist raves about wilderness, he must be aware that he is pulling the rug from under his own feet because for nature conservationists, wilderness means simply doing nothing.

Anyone who wants wilderness in his garden fires his gardener.

In many respects, nature conservation is the opposite of wilderness.

In many cases, nature conservation requires the protection of a particular state of nature in an area (usually temporary and influenced by humans); but protection from the threat of a different, ‘other nature’.

This ‘other nature’ would gain a foothold in the area in question if man did not protect it from the ‘other nature’.

In extreme cases, nature conservation means the protection of the nature which dominates in one particular area against the penetration and domination of the wilderness.








23-21 독성 물질, 공정, 제품에 대한 안전한 대안
For every toxic substance, process, or product in use today there is a safer alternative. either already in existence, or waiting to be discovered through the application of human intellect, ingenuity, and effort.

In almost every case, the safer alternative is available at a comparable cost.

Industry may reject these facts and fulminate about the high cost of acting, but history sets the record straight.

The chemical industry denied that there were viable alternatives to ozone-depleting chemicals, predicting not only economic disaster but numerous deaths because food and vaccines would spoil without refrigeration.

They were wrong.

The motor vehicle industry initially denied that cars caused air pollution, then claimed that no technology existed to reduce pollution from vehicles, and later argued that installing devices to reduce air pollution would make cars prohibitively expensive.

They were wrong every time.


The pesticide industry argues that synthetic pesticides are absolutely necessary to grow food.

Thousands of organic farmers are proving them wrong.





23-22 식사 중 음식 먹기에 집중하기
Let’s say that you’ve just sat down to enjoy a bowl of pasta with your favorite sauce.

The first bite tastes so delicious!

So does the second bite.

You comment on the seasoning, and then begin a conversation with your friend about the best restaurants you have eaten in and the best pasta dishes you’ve had.

Suddenly you look down and see that the plate is empty!

What happened to that wonderful pasta?

After a few bites you didn’t taste it, because you were busy talking.

Instead of eating the food before you in this moment, this mouthful, you were thinking about memories of food from the past.

The mouth’s hunger has not been satisfied.

The mouth asks for a second helping.

It’s still hungry.

If you talk or watch TV while eating this second helping, you might feel oddly unsatisfied once again, and need a third helping.



23-23 상대방이 잘못 알고 있는 것 바로잡아 주기
You and a few of your friends are talking about cars and auto repair.

Then they start talking about how many cylinders are in a particular vehicle’s engine or gas mileage or something like that.

Another friend, who also happens to be standing there, hears something that he or she finds questionable and corrects you...incorrectly.

You have the impulse to laugh at your friend.

Don’t. Realize that not everyone has been exposed to all of the same things in their life that you have.

Also realize that you may not have been exposed to some of the things that that person has.

Instead of laughing at your friend and making him or her feel bad, politely correct your friend and educate him or her in what you are talking about.

That way your friend will learn something new and will be the better for it.








23-25 라헬 카슨의 전공 변경
In the beginning of her junior year, deciding to continue as an English major while minoring in biology, Rachel Carson felt that she had resolved her situation.

She enjoyed her classes including a novel course, composition, and vertebrate biology and hygiene.

But as the semester progressed, she felt more strongly that Professor Skinker, her biology professor, was her true mentor and role model.

In January 1928, with only three semesters until graduation, Rachel officially changed her major to biology.

She replaced her novel course with a chemistry course and had to devote herself to making up all the labs and courses required to fulfill the major in time for graduation.

The administration of the college was disappointed with her decision to change her major because she had held so much promise as a writer.

Science was not considered a woman’s field in those days, and there were few opportunities for women aside from teaching.

But Rachel was confident that she had made the right choice.







23-28 11세기 중반 물고기 공급원의 극적인 변화
Within the space of a few decades around the middle of the eleventh century, there was a dramatic shift in the source of fish from around 80 per cent freshwater to 80 per cent saltwater fish like cod, haddock and herring.

At the time, demand was increasing rapidly thanks to a combination of population growth and urbanization.

Fresh fish supplies were in freefall as a result of human-caused habitat change in rivers, lakes and estuaries.

With the spread of agriculture, forests were felled and land deep ploughed for crops.

Soil erosion soon turned fast-running, cool and clear water into sluggish, warm and turbid water, which species like salmon did not enjoy.

Nor did salmon, and other fish that migrated from sea to rivers to spawn, benefit from the construction of thousands of dams across Europe’s rivers to supply power for corn mills and other industries.

With their migration routes blocked, freshwater fisheries’ production collapsed.








23-29 경관 생태학
Landscape ecology focuses on the ecological relationships at the landscape scale.

According to ecologists Richard Forman and Michel Godron, landscape ecology is “a study of the structure, function, and change in a heterogeneous land area composed of interacting ecosystems.”

European scientists advanced landscape ecology before their American counterparts.

The landscapes of Europe have been more densely settled than in North America, and, as a result, the human influence was recognized quickly by European scientists.

American ecologists are more accustomed to studying relatively pristine landscapes.

The refinement of the landscape ecology discipline, coupled with increased suburban sprawl nationwide, has changed this situation as more American ecologists acknowledge human interactions with natural systems.

As landscape ecology has evolved through multiple interactions among European, American, and Australian contributors, it has crystallized into something new and powerful.

Richard Forman observes that human settlements form mosaic-like patterns on landscapes and that this land mosaic vision makes the landscape readily accessible to scientists, especially ecologists.




23-30 상으로 소년에게 신발을 사 준 렙 아르예
At the Etz Chayyim school where Reb Aryeh worked, he noticed a young student walking around in tattered shoes.

Clearly the boy needed a new pair immediately, but Reb Aryeh also knew that the boy’s father, a proud man, would take offense if the rabbi simply bought him a pair of shoes.

What to do?

During the morning recess, while the youngsters were playing in the courtyard, Reb Aryeh called the boy to his room because, he said, it was time to test the boy on his learning.

The questions he asked were well within the boy’s grasp, and the boy answered them.

“Splendid,” said the good rabbi, beaming, “that was just splendid. For this you deserve a prize.”

And there and then he gave the boy a note to a local shoemaker to give the boy some good shoes, for which Reb Aryeh would pay.

When the lad went home after school, he took with him another note from the good rabbi to his father, explaining about the “prize” he had won.






23-31 운동선수가 형상화 이미지에 능숙해야 할 필요성
Athletes who are able to create accurate and lifelike images benefit more than those who can create only a blurry, fleeting image.

Athletes with strong imagery skills are able to create vivid and controlled images.

Increasing imagery vividness is like focusing a camera - a vivid image contains sharp, clear details.

But athletes also need to be able to manipulate　the content of
their imagery to create images that do what they want them to do.

Without strong imagery control, athletes, especially those low in self-confidence, may find themselves repeating mistakes in their imagery.

A tennis player may unintentionally imagine choking on a critical match point, a softball player might see herself making a critical error, or a runner might experience an overwhelming sense of fatigue in the last leg of a race.

Such negative images are counterproductive, serving only to hurt performance.










23-32 삶의 불확실성
Adjusting to the unbearable persistence of uncertainty may be one of the loftiest accomplishments of human wisdom.

In a beautiful passage from Book V of his Meditations, the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius - known in the Roman era as “the wise one” - captured something of the uncertain nature of life and how we might respond to it.

“Repeatedly, dwell on the swiftness of the passage and departure of things that are and of things that come to be.

For substance is like a river in perpetual flux, its activities are in continuous changes, and its causes in myriad varieties, and there is scarcely anything which stands still, even what is near at hand; dwell, too, on the infinite gulf of the past and the future, in which all things vanish away.

Then how is he not a fool who in all this is puffed up or distressed or takes it hardly, as if he were in some lasting scene, which has troubled him for long?”

Only a fool, in short, would be upset by change.










23-33 뇌 손상과 음악적 능력
Patients who have suffered brain damage or disease may lose the ability to understand or make use of language without losing musical competence.

The great Soviet neuro-psychologist A. R. Luria studied a composer named Vissarion Shebalin who, following a stroke, suffered from severe sensory aphasia; that is, he was unable to understand the meaning of words.

Yet he continued to teach music and composed his fifth symphony which Shostakovich said was brilliant.

Luria’s famous patient, Zasetsky, whom he studied for many years, received a terrible bullet wound during the Second World War which extensively damaged the left side of his brain.

His capacity to use and understand language was at first badly impaired.

Amongst many other losses of cerebral function, his spatial perception was grossly distorted and his memory fragmented.

Yet he liked music just as much as he had done before he was wounded, and could easily remember the melodies of songs, though not their words.







23-34 여러 번 시를 읽는 것의 필요성
Anyone who can read can read a poem.

Part of poetry’s power is in the sound of the spoken word, so after you have read it silently, you have to read it again aloud.

One time won’t do it.

More than one time reading aloud will put you on the right path.

You will find upon re-reading a poem that you begin to convey meaning through vocal stress, that you begin to parse the poem’s literal and figurative meanings, and that your imagination actively engages in associative feelings.

It is actually like having a conversation with the poet, since what his artistic mind and ear created is interacting with your imaginative mind and ear.

The more you read, the more you will realize that poems do not have just one meaning.

Readers make subjective and imaginative choices when they read, and these can change upon re-reading a poem.

A poem read just one time is not fully read.









23-35 서양과 비서양 문화에서의 작곡가와 지휘자의 역할
The reliance on musical notation in Western classical music has given extraordinary powers of control and authority to the composer.

He or she, like an architect, can dictate every small detail in the musical blueprint (the score), and it is up to the carpenter (the performer) to execute them.

In non-Western cultures, however, the composer and performer are usually one and the same person, as in the case of the Indian musician and composer Ravi Shankar.

A piece of music comes into being only at the time of performance.

Similarly, there is no conductor in non-Western cultures, no one who directs but does not produce sound.

Even in the large Balinese gamelan, in which many instrumental parts have to be coordinated, the leader is one of the performers, usually one of the drummers.











23-36 바람직한 행동 교육 시 원칙이나 이유 설명의 중요성
In our attempts to teach children desirable attitudes and behaviors, it is important that we explain to them the principles or reasons behind desired actions.

For example, rather than threatening to punish athletes for heckling opponents, a coach might help his athletes understand the golden rule - “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you” - by asking them to consider what it would be like to be the victims of heckling.

This procedure encourages athletes to develop empathy for their opponents.

The ability to place oneself in the role of another person is essential to the development of morality.

Understanding and applying this golden rule can thus lead children to internalize the concept of sportsmanship and consideration for others.
















23-37 유럽 최초의 ‘호모 사피엔스’가 순록을 사냥한 방법
Twenty thousand years ago, northern Europe resembled modern Lapland: a cold, uncultivated panorama dotted with fewer and smaller trees than are there today.

Europe’s first Homo sapiens, probably fresh from wiping out their Neanderthal rivals, lived primarily on large game, particularly reindeer.

Even under ideal circumstances, hunting these fast animals with spear or bow and arrow is an uncertain enterprise.

The reindeer, however, had a weakness that mankind would mercilessly exploit: it swam poorly.

While afloat, it is uniquely vulnerable, moving slowly with its antlers held high as it struggles to keep its nose above water.

At some point, a Stone Age genius realized the enormous hunting advantage he would gain by being able to glide over the water’s surface, and built the first boat.

Once the easily overtaken and slaughtered prey had been hauled aboard, getting its carcass back to the tribal camp would have been far easier by boat than on land.

It would not have taken long for mankind to apply this advantage to other goods.





23-38 편차를 이용한 변화의 측정
One advantage of using temperature anomalies is that you can measure changes in a quantity even if you cannot measure the absolute value of the quantity.

Imagine, for example, that you want to determine if a child is growing.

The most obvious way to do this is to measure the child’s height every few months.

But, if you could not do that, an alternative would be to measure his height relative to, say, a mark on the wall.

If the top of his head is 1 inch below the mark one year, even with it the next year, and 1 inch above the following year, then you can be confident that the child is growing 1 inch per year. even if you never know the child’s absolute height.

This is the situation for the Earth’s temperature.

We cannot measure the Earth’s absolute temperature with high accuracy (because measuring it would require an extremely dense network of temperature measurements), but we can measure the temperature anomaly with high accuracy. high enough to see clear warming.










23-39 역사와 함께 가르쳐야 하는 수학
Mathematics as taught in school is perceived by most students as a subject lacking history.

The teacher becomes the source of all that has to be learned on the subject, and his task is to convey that knowledge to the student.

Usually in the instructional process, the understanding of the process of mathematical creation and of the age-old grappling with mathematical problems are completely lost.

Mathematics to most students is a closed subject, located in the mind of the teacher who decides whether answers are correct or not.

This situation is particularly harmful to mathematics teaching, more than to teaching in most of the other sciences.

Mathematics is by nature an accumulative subject; most of what was created millennia ago - both content and processes - is still valid today.

Exposing students to some of this development has the potential to make the subject fun and to humanize it for them.








23-40 재능 있는 예술가에 대한 쿵 산 부족의 관념
!Kung San artists have to manage a difficult balancing act: expressing a unique individual voice while avoiding any aura of superiority.

Talented artists are expected not to brag about it, and generally don’t receive any reward or status for their skill.

Anthropologist Marjorie Shostak found that this created problems for powerful artists, because their persona didn’t fit with the !Kung conception of the creative individual.

She wrote about Jimmy, a !Kung musician who she believed generated the most creative compositions.

Many other musicians played his compositions, so they had been judged as creative by other musicians in the culture.

Everyone was willing to say that Jimmy was unusually gifted.

Shostak explained that they were able to acknowledge this status difference only because he was so clearly an outsider.

He had trouble finding a wife, he lived miles apart from any village, and no one liked him; the name “Jimmy” itself testified to his outsider status, because almost no !Kung have Western names.

But although he was recognized as a gifted musician, no one respected him, valued him, or considered him a real member of their group.





23-41~42 왕실 후원이 예술 작품 창조에 끼치는 영향
Royal patronage has been widespread in the past.

This type of support, often connected to the political and religious context, has wide ramifications.

The Taj Mahal in India and the Egyptian pyramids, both commissioned by rulers, demonstrate its effect.

Created centuries apart in completely different cultural, historical, and religious environments, these monuments reflect the patrons’ views and overshadow, even conceal, those of the artists who created them.

The pyramids, effectively immense tombstones, served a practical burial purpose, but were also indicative of the Pharaohs’ power.

The Taj Mahal was built to commemorate the death of the ruler’s wife.

These structures speak about the power, as well as personal and historical significance of each patron.

The artists’ views are absent.

Official portraits of rulers are commissioned works, and thus unfavorable images are rare.

Leaders have been portrayed very similarly across time and cultures.

Power, leadership, control, and wisdom are some of the core characteristics found in these works.

In most cases, this art informs about the ruler, but reveals nothing about artists’ feelings or political thoughts.

Royal patronage can also be instrumental in supporting particular arts or styles.

This has been the case, for example, in China, where ruling dynasties have played an important role in the development of painting.

Royal patronage has also supported the construction of many architectural structures around the world.






















23-43~45 면접에서 기본적인 사실조차 확인하지 않은 리안
At the campus job fair, Ryan impressed the top-class consulting firm.

He had a professional resume that spoke well of excellent grades and a lot of leadership experience.

He seemed confident and comfortable in the screening interviews and they were anxious for him to visit their offices for a day of interviews.

He shared their eagerness. On the night before the interview, he flew to their headquarters in Chicago.

When he checked into the hotel room, he opened his laptop to do a little research on the firm.

He read their annual report carefully, not really finding anything interesting.

He got bored and started flipping through the channels on TV. The next day, Ryan went into the interviews confidently.

The first person he talked to was a senior manager who introduced himself as Arthur Sullivan. He worked in the firm’s strategy practice.

He asked Ryan several questions about his leadership experience and how he would handle various real-world business scenarios.

He was proud of his answers and Mr. Sullivan seemed pleased as well.

When Mr. Sullivan had exhausted all of his questions he thanked Ryan and asked if he had any questions for him.

“You said you’re from the strategy practice, right?” “That’s correct,” he answered.

“What other practices do you have at the firm?” he asked. Mr. Sullivan hesitated for a moment.

Then he answered, “Well, we have a number of practices. In addition to strategy, we have an IT practice, finance, operations, and M&A. There are actually nine practices. You can check our website to get the full list and what they’re all about.”

“Do you have branches in any other cities?” “Yes, we actually have nineteen branch offices across the U.S. Again, all the locations are on our website.”

He paused for a moment and said, “Ryan, can I give you some advice?” “Sure.”

“These questions are all information you could find out by looking at our website. That’s probably something you should have done before the interview. The next company you interview with, I would suggest you study their website and do some basic research on the firm before you interview with them.”

Ryan’s face felt hot. He was not only embarrassed, but angry at himself. He knew he had just blown the interview, but he went through the remaining two interviews in his faith.

That night on the plane back to school he kept replaying Mr. Sullivan’s advice over and over in his head.
24-18 유지 보수 계약의 부분 환불 요청
Dear Mr. Wilson:
Your company has been one of our vendors for several years.

Each year we purchase a maintenance contract.

On September 8 of this year, we called for service.

If you would kindly review the attached log, you’ll see that we had to place four calls before we received a callback, and it was two full days before a technician arrived.

This level of responsiveness is unacceptable to us and is below your stated guarantee; therefore, I am writing to request a partial refund of our maintenance contract.

It seems to me that a refund of one month’s fee would be fair.

Please ensure that a check for that amount is sent directly to our accounting department.
Sincerely,
Jonathan Smith
Contracts Manager of Smart Buy










24-19 풋볼 경기에서의 승리
The Rebels had the ball, and it looked like it was going to be another loss for us.

But then it happened; they fumbled the ball, we took it in for a touchdown, and you would have thought we had won the Super Bowl.

The time was running down and the Rebels had the ball again.

It looked like they were going to score and then it happened; they fumbled again and we ran it for a 69-yard touchdown.

The game was over.

We won our first game ever since 1984.

Could you believe it?

The crowd was going wild.

They were throwing toilet paper and running onto the field.

The newspaper probably got the best picture of everybody on the field, and the caption read, “What a Way to End a Season.”










24-20 역사가의 어휘 의미 파악
Language is often period specific, and historians must be extremely cautious not to read modern definitions into past times and thereby corrupt meaning.

Words may have had a specific meaning or use in the past that is far different from current usage.

Further, just as modern English has its own jargon and idioms, they were also present in the past.

For example, the past use of the word icon would have religious connotations, while in the twenty-first century the word would often be associated with a clickable image on a computer’s desktop.

Having the Oxford English Dictionary or another etymological dictionary close at hand for reference will help historians avoid this form of potential misinterpretation.

This is especially important because of the instability and sometimes open-ended meaning which words may convey.

In order for historians to extract precise meaning from language effectively, it is essential that they have a clear idea of how these words functioned in the context of their time.







24-21 각 과학 분야의 고유성
It is a common presumption that all fields of science. or even all intellectual disciplines. are essentially the same sort of thing: the pursuit of truth, albeit about different topics.

In point of fact, this is quite wrong.

Each intellectual discipline carries with it peculiar beliefs about what “truth” even means, about what is valuable and what trivial, about how much or little objectivity is possible, about how certain is the knowledge that can be obtained, and much more.

There is good reason to think of the academic disciplines as cultures, whose members have not only a common intellectual task but also many values and many characteristics of behaviour in common.

Each discipline develops a distinct culture specifically suited to its particular intellectual task - for example differences between pure mathematics and mathematical physics.

One consequence is that disparate answers may be offered by various disciplines on any given question, say as to how science works: each discipline looks in its own manner for the answer, and each seeks its own sort of answer.










24-22 기록을 통한 역사가의 과거 재구성
The nature of the past is of primary concern to the historian since “the past” is his sole subject matter.

From his standpoint, the past exists only as it is re-created in the historian’s mind.

The concrete events of the past are forever gone, and they can be re-created again in the historian’s imagination only to the extent that records of some kind have survived from those who witnessed the events.

The telltale signs left by events are many: words of eyewitnesses who selected what aspects of any event were significant to them, plus their interpretation and valuation; fossil tracks, leaves, bones; geological records in rocks, volcanic layers, seamounts, oceanic trenches, and so on.

If an event leaves no record, then it is forever irretrievable; no historian can reconstruct it, nor, for that matter, would he have reason to guess that it had ever occurred.












24-23 본능적 행동에 의한 훈련 실패
Drawing on their experience in using operant conditioning to train animals for circuses, TV, and film stunts, Keller Breland and Marian Breland described a number of situations in which their attempts to condition an animal’s behavior ran head-on into the animal’s built-in instincts.

For example, according to the theory of operant conditioning, rewarding a behavior should increase its frequency.

However, when the Brelands attempted to train a raccoon to drop two coins in a piggy bank by rewarding this response with food, the raccoon did not cooperate.

After the raccoon was rewarded with food for dropping two coins into the bank, it took the next two coins and began rubbing them together, just as they do to remove the shells of newly caught crayfish.

Eventually, the coin-rubbing response overpowered the coin-dropping response, and the Brelands had to abandon their attempt to condition the raccoon.

The Brelands used this and other examples to emphasize the importance of biologically programmed behavior.











24-25 케이프 헌팅 독
The Cape hunting dog is only distantly related to the domestic dog.

Unlike true dogs, foxes, wolves and jackals, the Cape hunting dog, or African wild dog, has only four toes on the front foot.

It is the largest member of the dog family to occur in Africa, standing just over 2 feet (0.6 m) high at the shoulder and measuring 4 feet (1.2 m) from nose to bushy tail.

The mottled black, white, yellow and yellowish brown coat and large, round ears give the Cape hunting dog a patchwork look; no two dogs have the same pattern.

The tip of the dog’s tail is usually white, and its muzzle black; a distinctive black line runs from the tip of its muzzle to between its ears.

The Cape hunting dog has a strong odor and utters a distinctive call somewhat similar to the sound of an oboe.












24-28 숙달된 독자와 덜 숙달된 독자
Advanced readers have engaged in hundreds, if not thousands, of hours of reading.

What they attend to, and do, will be different, at least in part, from what they attended to and did when they were less experienced readers.

In this respect, highly skilled readers have developed and adapted their expertise over countless text reading occasions, and encouraging nonproficient readers to mimic what expert readers do, outside of the deliberate practice framework, is risky.

Less experienced readers have not had the opportunity to enable automaticity in certain skills required to use the highly sophisticated strategies that skilled readers regularly use.

Just as the expert tennis player progresses from focusing on the ball to automatically focusing on body cues, less experienced readers require practice in a wider variety of skills before successfully integrating them to read and understand complex texts.













24-29 벌과 식물의 상호 작용
Although bees and bee-pollinated flowering plants depend on each other, both operate selfishly.

For each, there is a cost/benefit equation that must balance in its favour.

Nectar and pollen production are costly to a plant and must be balanced for maximum return (that is, maximum chance of successful reproduction) for the energy spent to produce them.

For example, individual flowers must contain enough nectar to attract pollinators, but little enough to keep pollinators motivated to visit many flowers, thus accomplishing pollination.

Some plants accomplish this strategy by putting heavy nectar loads in only a few (5-8%) of their flowers.

These constitute the so-called ‘lucky hits’ for a bee that motivate it to keep foraging on the plant.

Flight and foraging activity are energetically costly to a bee and must be balanced against the calories derived from nectar and pollen.









24-30 분실한 지갑을 찾게 된 일화
On February 1, 2007, a man named Peter lost a wallet containing $5,950 that he was going to use to buy a car.

He had ridden in a taxi and thought that he might have left it in the taxi.

Stanley Lal, an airport taxi coordinator, called Vinod Mago, who had just started his shift in a Seattle-Tacoma International Taxi Association cab.

Mr. Mago, who in 1984 had moved to the United States from India, looked and found the wallet in the back of his cab.

Peter was joyous when he heard that his wallet had been found, and he hugged Mr. Lal a few times, saying, “That’s my life savings!”

Mr. Mago had months earlier found $640 and returned it to its owner.

He says, “If money doesn’t belong to me, I don’t keep it. I know God is watching everybody, every second.”

Peter gave a $100 reward to Mr. Mago, who used it to take his family out to eat.










24-31 어린이 심리 치료를 위한 스토리텔링의 특징
Because stories permit and nurture creativity, because they allow for adaptability, there is no right or wrong way to tell a story, just as there is no right or wrong way to play music.

Once you have acquired the basic skills of an instrument, you can play classical, jazz, rock, rap, or folk, following a score note-by-note or improvising your own composition.

When you play a tune, there are different ways to do so, some more effective and some less effective.

For every child your story is likely to be different and the style in which you tell it is also likely to be different, because no one child, circumstance, problem, or outcome is exactly the same as another.

At first this may seem a formidable challenge, not just to the process of using metaphors but to any process of therapy, but as you think of the story as constantly evolving for you and your young clients, flexibility grows easier.












24-32 또래의 개념
The concept “peer” is generally used synonymously with the expression “same-age child.”

Yet the word “peer” has a connotation that differentiates it from the expression “same-age child.”

The equality of “peers” does not depend primarily on age but on equality according to developed abilities and social rank.

This is reflected in the original meaning of the word, which denoted one of equal social standing or rank.

Thus, not all children with whom a child interacts are necessarily peers but only children who interact at comparable levels of behavioral complexity.

Researcher Lewis, M. and his colleagues point out that a child’s recognition of another as a “peer” is initially related to the other child’s function: “That is, a peer would be on one occasion all the children who could climb a tree, while on another occasion it would be those able to sing songs.”














24-33 사회적 상황이 행동에 미치는 영향
One way in which we make decisions is to analyze incoming and internal information within a social context and then decide what action to take.

For example, we might be so upset by something that we just want to shout out a cry of disgust.

But if at that moment we are riding on a packed bus or walking through a crowded shopping mall, the social context (Will these people think I’m insane?) inhibits us from doing so.

In schools, students often refrain from doing what they really want for fear of what their peers will think of their behavior.

For instance, some students regrettably do not perform to their potential in school because they fear that their peers will think of them as nerds or teacher’s pets and thus ostracize them from their social group.

On the other hand, students sometimes perform risky behaviors (e.g., underage drinking, reckless driving) just to get their peers’ attention. Social context, therefore, is a powerful inhibitor or encourager of behavior.









24-34 과학적 발견에 대한 언론의 과장 보도
Media coverage of a phenomenon called the “Mozart effect” provides an example of how journalists might misrepresent science when they write for a popular audience.

In 1993, researcher Frances Rauscher found that when students heard Mozart music played for 10 minutes, they performed better on a subsequent spatial intelligence test when compared with students who had listened to silence or to a monotone speaking voice.

Rauscher said in a radio interview, “What we found was that the students who had listened to the Mozart sonata scored significantly higher on the spatial temporal task.”

However, Rauscher added, “It is very important to note that we did not find effects for general intelligence ... just for this one aspect of intelligence.

It is a small gain and it doesn’t last very long.”

But despite the careful way the scientist described the results, the media that reported on the story exaggerated its importance.












24-35 정보 통신 기술 발전의 가능성
For those of us who have lived through the invention of the Internet and mobile computing, it feels like digital technology has finally reached a mature phase.

But as most tech experts will tell you, we’ve barely scratched the surface.

Every day, tens of thousands of new apps are developed, and smarter, more powerful gadgets are designed to replace what’s in our pockets and fill the gaps in our lives that have yet to be digitized.

This modern digital world offers much to amuse, amaze, and delight us, enabling us to do things we didn’t think possible just five years ago.

For example, today we have the option of “hiring” an app as our personal assistant.

It can send birthday greetings for us, nudge us when a friend posts troublesome news, and even remind us to dress appropriately tomorrow when it looks like it might rain.










24-36 자연의 체온 조절 방법
Among the most fascinating natural thermoregulatory behaviors are those of social insects such as bees, ants, and termites.

These insects are able to maintain a nearly constant temperature in their hives or mounds throughout the year.

The constancy of these microclimates depends not just on the location and insulation of the habitat, but on the activity of the insects in the colony.

When the surrounding temperature increases, the activity in the hive decreases, which decreases the amount of heat generated by insect metabolism.

In fact, many animals decrease their activity in the heat and increase it in the cold, and people who are allowed to choose levels of physical activity in hot or cold environments adjust their workload precisely to body temperature.

This behavior serves to avoid both hypothermia and hyperthermia.














24-37 면역 체계 세포의 역할
Our immune systems’ cells are constantly scanning the environment to detect organisms and molecules that are foreign and hostile.

They accomplish this by recognizing surfaces.

It helps to think of this system as similar to the scanning devices in stores.

A simple scan of a tag will tell the retailer what a particular item is, how much it costs, and how many are left in stock.

The body uses a code system called the HLA (human leukocyte antigen) system, which works in a similar fashion.

It gives a code to all surfaces.

Immune cells basically identify surfaces.

Everything has a surface, whether it is your own cells, a microorganism, or a piece of food.

When your immune system scans the interior surfaces of your body, it compares each to a list of approved codes, the ones it classifies as “self.”

If the immune system detects a surface with a threatening code, an antigen, it releases weapons and recruits other immune-system cells to attack the foreign surface as a way to defend you and survive.



24-38 주요 교통수단으로서의 자전거
Many Americans tend to think of bicycles as only for children, but in much of the world bicycles are the primary mode of adult transportation.

In the Netherlands, for example, bicycles account for nearly 30 percent of all urban trips.

Not only does every city in the country have bike lanes and trails, but cyclists are often given many advantages over motorists.

Cyclists are permitted, for example, to move out before cars at many traffic lights.

In 2007, Amsterdam became the first major city in the industrialized Western world where more trips were taken by bicycle than by car.

Is it a coincidence that, adjusted for population size, the rate of obesity in the Netherlands is less than a third of what it is in the United States?

And that the amount spent on health care per person is about half as much?










24-39 관광 관련 통계 사용 시 유의점
Inbound tourist arrival statistics should be treated with caution, especially if they are being used to identify temporal trends.

This is in part because of the high margin of error that characterizes older data in particular.

For example, the UNWTO figure of 25 million international stayovers for 1950 is nothing more than a rough estimate, given the primitive data-collecting techniques of that era.

Yet it is used as a baseline for calculating the relative growth in global tourist arrivals since then.

At the scale of any individual country, this margin of error is amplified.

More recent statistics have a smaller margin of error as a result of UNWTO initiatives to standardize definitions and data collection protocols.

However, error still results from such things as inconsistencies from country to country in the collection and reporting of arrivals, expenditures and other tourism-related statistics.

This is why UNWTO often adjusts country-level and aggregate arrival data from year to year and why only the statistics that are around five years old are stable.







24-40 텔레비전 시청이 어린이에게 미치는 영향
An important part of children’s social reality is their role as consumers.

Television has an obvious impact on children as consumers in countries like the United States, where television is an almost purely commercial venture and television advertising is an important part of children’s exposure to the medium.

However, television also affects the child as consumer even when there is no advertising at all.

In the 1950s it was found that British children who had access only to the BBC, which carries no advertising, had more materialistic ambitions than those without television.

Adolescent boys who watched television, for example, were more focused on what they would have in the future; adolescent boys without television were more focused on what they would be doing.

The longer the child’s experience with television, the more this materialistic outlook increased.

Apparently, the visual images of television create an emphasis on visible and tangible objects, hence on consumption, in defining one’s identity and life style.







24-41~42 기술 혁신이 사회 문화적 권력에 미치는 영향
Great shifts in power often follow hard on the heels of new technological innovations.

At times this may be deliberate, as when a country introduces a powerful new weapon in order to intimidate its opponents.

Indeed, this was the case with the U.S.S.R. (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) and Tsar Bomba. They introduced this rather impractical weapon simply to show off their superiority. (How exactly did they intend to get that 52,000 pound, 50-megaton warhead over New York City anyway?)

At other times, a shift in power may simply flow from the unpredictability of technology, as happened with the printing press.

In either case, we see that the benefits of a technological change are not always evenly distributed across an entire society.

For example, think of the way that the printing press took power from the clergy and put it firmly in the hands of the laity.

No longer would the clergy have a monopoly on reading, understanding, and explaining the words of God.

Now every person could have his own copy of the Bible to read, to ponder, to digest, and to obey.

The Roman Catholic Church would never recover the cultural dominance it had once enjoyed.

Gutenberg, a faithful Catholic, never foresaw that his invention would cripple the church he loved.

So it is that the advantages and disadvantages of new technologies are not equally shared across society.

There are always some who benefit . and some who lose.

The blacksmith was rendered obsolete by the automobile, the telegrapher by the telephone operator.

The words computer and typewriter once referred to specific people . an expert employee who performed a special task, not a machine.

In each case, the machine defeated the man.

Power shifted from the specialist to those who invented and embraced the new technologies.



















24-43~45 곰의 공격으로부터 주인을 지킨 개
On April 28, 2009, Tierney Tredo, 19, of Penhook, Virginia, was walking her two dogs when they encountered a black bear.

Her Shetland sheepdog, whose name is Sophie, saved her from being attacked by the bear.

Her other dog, a large, long-haired, mixed-breed dog named Cheyenne, who is two or three years old, first encountered the bear.

Ms. Tredo said, “Cheyenne was in the thicket about five minutes before she came running out. She was hollering.

Then I saw a shadow behind her and thought it was another dog.

In a minute or so, I heard footsteps coming down toward me. It was then I saw the face break through the thicket and realized it was a bear.” Her dog Sophie was beside her as she yelled, “Get away, bear!” She said, “I could have touched it if I had wanted. I felt his breath on my legs.”

The bear swiped at Cheyenne, glancing at it, and Cheyenne ran away.

However, Sophie stayed with Ms. Tredo, barking at the bear and positioning herself between the bear and Ms. Tredo.

Ms. Tredo said, “I knew the bear wanted to get at me. After a five-minute standoff, finally, Sophie ran the bear back into the thicket where it came from. I could see the bear in the woods walking back and forth. I could also see Sophie. Sophie looked back at me and barked like she was telling me to leave.”

Ms. Tredo said, “I ran a little way, and I heard the dog holler. I knew then the bear had gotten hold of her.”

Mary Plunkett, Ms. Tredo’s grandmother, heard Sophie barking.

Ms. Plunkett got into her pickup truck and drove toward the bear, honking the horn to scare the bear away.

Ms. Plunkett and Ms. Tredo then took Sophie to the vet for treatment.

Possibly, the black bear was a female with cubs.

Lt. Karl Martin of the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries said, “Normally the black bear is shy and not aggressive with humans. Cheyenne may have posed a threat when it entered the woods, causing the bear to follow it into the open.”

Fortunately, Sophie recovered from the wounds the bear inflicted on her.












25-18 독점 판매 대리권
This has reference to your recent advertisement in the newspapers regarding appointment of Sole Selling Agent for your ‘COOKBEST’ Pressure Cookers in the State of Tamil Nadu.

We are very much interested in taking up the Sole Selling Agency of your company.

We have been in the field of selling ‘home appliances and allied products’ for the last 15 years and we represent several reputed manufacturers.

In view of our vast experience in the field and the availability of our sales network all over the State, selling your products and achieving the sales target is no problem to us.

We are financially sound and can furnish bank guarantees and deposits in line with your trade requirements and terms.

We shall be thankful if you will kindly consider us as one of the applicants for the above and give us a chance to sell your products in the State of Tamil Nadu.









25-19 조카를 깜짝 놀라게 하고 겁주는 삼촌
As most children do, I was playing and talking to an imaginary friend, never realizing that Uncle Ned was standing behind me with his Halloween mask on listening and waiting for his chance to scare the living daylights out of me.

Suddenly, I heard something dragging its feet behind me.

Glancing over my shoulder, I saw an ugly, old man with a big, warty nose and a scary face!

I froze in fear and could not move.

Without warning he said, “Boo, little girl! I’ve come to get you!”

Screaming, I jumped to my feet and leaped off the porch that stood high off the ground, never thinking that I might break a bone.

I just needed to get as far away from that ugly man as possible!

I don’t think my feet hit the ground more than three times before I jumped into the arms of Grandma Smith, who was just coming out of the old outhouse.











25-20 역사 교사의 설명과 질문 기술 개발
As a history teacher it is difficult to avoid the use of teacher talk as a significant element of your lessons.

The reason for this is the fact that history is one of those subjects which involves a vast amount of content, so there can be a great deal to talk about.

There is and always will be an important place for teacher talk whether it be questioning or exposition and the subject offers plenty of topics, which can be described in a stimulating way.

The development of your skills both in exposition and in questioning is an essential feature of your competence as a history teacher.

Such teaching figured highly in the traditional approach and there is little doubt it can be overdone.

Yet, however accomplished you become at devising purposeful and worthwhile learning activities for pupils, you must at some point be able to use the skills of exposition and questioning to explain the past to pupils in an engaging and effective manner.










25-21 종의 다양화에 대한 기아의 기여
Not all organisms are able to find sufficient food to survive, so starvation is a kind of disvalue often found in nature.

It also is part of the process of selection by which biological evolution functions.

Starvation helps filter out those less fit to survive, those less resourceful in finding food for themselves and their young.

In some circumstances, it may pave the way for genetic variants to take hold in the population of a species and eventually allow the emergence of a new species in place of the old one.

Thus starvation is a disvalue that can help make possible the good of greater diversity.

Starvation can be of practical or instrumental value, even as it is an intrinsic disvalue.

That some organisms must starve in nature is deeply regrettable and sad.

The statement remains implacably true, even though starvation also may sometimes subserve ends that are good.










25-22 영재들의 행동에 대한 오진
As psychologists and educators become more aware of the behaviors that suggest learning disabilities, concerns are now being raised that gifted students may be misdiagnosed as having psychological disorders as a result of the very behaviors that make them gifted.

For example, many gifted students are intense in their work, engage in power struggles with adults, and are extremely sensitive to emotional situations.

They are often impatient with themselves and others, displaying an intense idealism and concern for moral and social issues, which can create depression and anxiety.

Further, gifted students are often bored in the regular classroom and their peer relations can be difficult.

These problems, which can be associated with the characteristic strengths of gifted students, can be mislabeled and ultimately lead to misdiagnosis.











25-23 포토저널리즘에서 ‘중요한 사진’ 선택
The public plays almost no expressive or even approving role in selecting “big pictures” of photojournalism (the exception being some contests to name “photo of the year”).

Editors do not poll the public before displaying images of the day’s news and selecting those worthy of more extensive coverage and comment.

The Pulitzer Prize, too, is voted upon by journalistic elites.

Photographers and journalists (through prize committees), editors (through selection), and political and editorial elites (through notation and commentary) impose greatness and thus fame on images.

Historians and textbook companies, by reemploying or “quoting” such images for discussion or simply illustration, reaffirm that they are “great.”

Obviously, after repeatedly viewing and absorbing such observations, members of the public are likely to agree with this verdict, even if they may be less than susceptible to the pictures’ affecting their beliefs or actions.

Elites, thus, largely set the agenda of greatness and establish the criteria for which images are judged great.









25-25 향수박하
A member of the mint family, bee balm is often overlooked and yet it’s a very pretty garden flower which has the added benefit of being edible.

And bees love it. Bee balm is native to North America.

The Oswego tribes of Native Americans made a tea from the leaves of the plant and this flavoursome drink was quickly adopted by the European settlers.

Bee balm is a hardy perennial, which can grow to 1.5 m in height, given the right conditions.

These include moist soil and either full sunshine or partial shade; edges of woodlands suit the plant as well as the formal flower bed.

In bloom in summer, its unusual, tufty flowers with tubular petals give them something of the appearance of a butterfly.

The flowers of bee balm come in a whole spectrum of colours from a creamy white through to pinks, reds and dark purples.










25-28 개인 구성원에 의해 공유된 사회적 가치관인 관습
Cultural elements are held by individuals and influence both individuals and society.

For comparison across nations, the average value priorities of individual members of one society are compared with the average value priorities of individual members of other societies.

The average value priorities of a group are what the members of that group or nation have in common. Individual values are partly a product of shared culture and partly a product of unique individual personality and experience.

There is overlap between individual values and cultural values because institutions reflect the societal values shared by the individual members.

If they did not do so, individuals would not be able to function adequately.

Individual members of a society have internalized values that help them conform to the requirements of societal institutions.

Individuals are guided by their cultural priorities and in their behavior reinforce the social system.










25-29 인쇄기 발명 전후에 따른 생각 전파의 특징
The printing press boosted the power of ideas to copy themselves.

Prior to low-cost printing, ideas could and did spread by word of mouth.

While this was tremendously powerful, it limited the complexity of the ideas that could be propagated to those that a single person could remember.

It also added a certain amount of guaranteed error.

The spread of ideas by word of mouth was equivalent to a game of telephone on a global scale.

The advent of literacy and the creation of handwritten scrolls and, eventually, handwritten books strengthened the ability of large and complex ideas to spread with high fidelity.

But the incredible amount of time required to copy a scroll or book by hand limited the speed with which information could spread this way.

A well-trained monk could transcribe around four pages of text per day.

A printing press could copy information thousands of times faster, allowing knowledge to spread far more quickly, with full fidelity, than ever before.





25-30 할아버지의 꿈
My grandfather had left Romania, travelled the world, and was living in San Francisco, California, at the time.

One night he had a dream.

He saw his grandfather walking toward him, his body filled with light.

His grandfather, radiant, spoke to him in a kindly voice: “I’ve come to say goodbye, Nick, and to tell you I love you very much.”

So saying, he disappeared.

In the morning my grandfather remembered his dream.

He wrote it in his diary; then he wrote a letter back to Bucharest, asking for news.

He knew his grandfather had emigrated from Romania to St. Louis, Missouri, but he didn’t have his current address.

The letter took a long time going - this was before e-mail, fax, phone or airplanes - and the reply took a long time coming.

When he finally received a letter, it contained sad news.

His grandfather had died.

He remembered his dream.

When he looked in his diary, he saw that his grandfather had died on the same day that he had had his dream.
25-31 포스트모던 학파에서 보는 독자의 역할
The mantra of the so-called postmodern school of literary criticism is that readers create their own texts; the writer is not in control of the readers’ response.

Prior to postmodernism, the text was thought to be the printed letters on the physical pages of the book. in other words, a visible created product.

The author was the creator, and the reader was a passive consumer.

Today’s postmodernists argue that the writer and reader collaborate to creatively generate the meaning of the work.

The pages of the book aren’t the created product; after all, they’re static and lifeless.

The act of reading is performative; the book provides a framework for the reading experience, but doesn’t determine that experience.

Readers bring books to life through the creative act of reading.












25-32 발표 준비
Can you guess what most people who are worried about their presentations refuse to do?

Practice. When I’m asked to coach someone on his presentation, and he sends me his slides, do you know the first question I ask? “Did you practice?” Usually he says no, surprised this would be so important.

As if other performers like rock bands and Shakespearean actors don’t need to rehearse to get their material right.

The slides are not the performance: you, the speaker, are the performance.

And it turns out, most of the advice you find in all the great books on public speaking, including advice about slides, is difficult to apply if you don’t practice.

The most pragmatic reason for practice is that it allows me to safely make mistakes and correct them before anyone ever sees my presentation.

It’s possible I’m not a better public speaker than anyone else.

I’m just better at catching and fixing problems.








25-33 훌륭한 사상가들의 특징
Some of the people who have contributed most to the enrichment of human experience have contributed little to the welfare of human beings in particular.

It can be argued that some of the great thinkers were self-centred, alienated, or ‘narcissistic’; more preoccupied with what went on in their own minds than with the welfare of other people.

The same is true of many writers, composers, and painters.

The creative person is constantly seeking to discover himself, to remodel his own identity, and to find meaning in the universe through what he creates.

He finds this a valuable integrating process which, like meditation or prayer, has little to do with other people, but which has its own separate validity.

His most significant moments are those in which he attains some new insight, or makes some new discovery; and these moments are chiefly, if not invariably, those in which he is alone.









25-34 표현 수단과 작품의 성공과의 관계
The instruments used in a modern orchestra have changed tremendously since even the late-nineteenth century.

Yet Beethoven, Mozart, and Haydn seemed able to come up with awfully good pieces in spite of the technical deficiencies of their technology (poorly tuned woodwinds, brass with limited agility, etc.).

A major trend of the last couple of decades has even been to use these less-developed instruments to play more “historically accurate” versions of the pieces.

These recordings are often more popular and more critically admired than recordings that are more technically perfect (more in tune, better balanced, greater range of instrumental timbre, etc.).

This is not different from other domains, even technological ones.

A major movement in video games in the last few years has been retro.

There is no question that new games offer a greater palette of graphical and interface possibilities, but that doesn’t mean that they will be more fun or engaging.

The success of a work depends on how it uses its medium, not on the absolute sophistication of that medium.






25-35 미술 보급에서 웹의 주요한 역할
The web has become a major player in art dissemination.

Institutional and personal websites, webcams, art for sale, and image databanks and encyclopedias are some of the numerous
forums available in cyberspace.

More recently video-posting, podcastings, blogs, and scores of devices and programs have added multiple possibilities for art to become a vast online presence.

Some of these new forms of dissemination have challenged, and even dismissed, the value of traditional venues and institutions.

Others are so new that neither the experts nor the public know exactly what to think about them.

The growing demand for access to information 24 hours a day has prompted museums, galleries, and other art institutions to include new forms of electronic communication in their programs.











25-36 공정성을 위한 자유 시장에서의 소득 재분배
There are important fairness issues that arise from letting free markets determine people’s incomes.

Some people lose their jobs because firms are reorganizing in the face of new technologies.

Others may keep their jobs, but the market values their services so poorly that they face economic hardship.

The old and the chronically ill may suffer if their past circumstances did not allow them to save enough to support themselves.

For many reasons of this sort we accept government intervention to redistribute income by taking something from the ‘haves’ and giving it to the ‘have-nots’.

Almost everyone accepts that there should be some redistribution of incomes.

Care must be taken, however, not to kill the goose that lays the golden egg.

Taking too much from the haves risks eliminating their incentive to work hard and produce income, some of which is to be redistributed to the have-nots.









25-37 상호 연관되어 있는 기술의 점진적인 발전
Technological evolution is systemic.

It cannot be treated as a discrete, isolated event that concerns only one artifact.

A new technology needs not only to be invented and designed, but it needs to be produced.

This requires a whole host of other technologies.

And it requires infrastructures.

A telephone needs a telephone network; a car needs both a road network and a gasoline distribution system, and each of these consists of whole “bundles” of individual technologies.

This interdependence of technologies causes enormous difficulties in implementing large-scale changes.

But it is also what causes technological changes to have such pervasive and extensive impacts once they are implemented.

From historical research we know particular periods of economic development correspond with clusters of interrelated developments in artifacts, techniques, institutions, and forms of social organization.

These mutually interdependent and cross-enhancing “sociotechnical systems of production and use” cannot be analyzed in terms of single technologies, but must be considered in terms of the mutual interactions among all concurrent technological, institutional, and social changes.




25-38 올바른 범주 사용을 통해 창의적으로 생각하기
Exceptional creators use special techniques to see more effectively and more efficiently.

For example, using the right categories can make it easier to see gaps and difficulties, as David Perkins demonstrated with a visual search task.

First, he asked people to search a list of random letters and, as fast as possible, tell him whether the letter “x” was in the list.

Try it yourself with this list: r, x, v, s, w; you can do it reasonably fast.

But then Perkins asked people to tell him if there was an “x” in this list: a, e, i, o, u.

Everyone is faster at the second decision than the first, because the category of “vowels” allows you to see very quickly that there is no “x”.

The good news is that people create new categories every day, and that means you can learn to scan for unusual and potentially relevant information by creating a new category.

Creative people are better at seeing gaps, at spotting difficulties, at noticing opportunities and flaws.




25-39 편지를 밀봉하는 이유
Most people seal the envelope before posting a letter.

If asked why, then some immediate responses would probably include comments like ‘I don’t know really’, ‘habit’, ‘why not?’ or ‘because everyone else does’.

More reasoned responses might include ‘to stop the letter falling out’ or ‘to stop people from reading it’.

Even if the letters do not contain any sensitive or highly personal information, many of us like to think that the contents of our personal correspondence are private and that sealing the envelope protects them from everyone except the intended recipient.

If we sent our letters in unsealed envelopes, then anyone who gained possession of the envelope would be able to read its contents.

Whether or not they would actually do so is a different issue.

The point is that there is no denying that they would be able to if they wanted to.

Furthermore, if they replaced the letter in the envelope then we would not know they had done so.










25-40 균등하게 배분된 단백질 섭취가 미치는 긍정적인 영향
In a recent study, researchers compared two groups of volunteers who consumed 90 grams of protein each day, primarily in the form of lean beef.

One group ate 30 grams of protein at each meal, while the other group ate 10 grams at breakfast, 15 grams at lunch, and 65 grams at dinner.

The volunteers who consumed the evenly distributed protein meals had a twenty-four-hour muscle protein synthesis 25 percent greater than those subjects who ate according to the skewed protein distribution pattern.

Better muscle synthesis means a more efficient utilization of calories, and less protein being oxidized and ending up as glucose or fat.

So balancing your protein intake throughout the day is key.

Add an egg, a glass of mixed vegetable juice, Greek yogurt, or a handful of nuts to get closer to 30 grams of protein in the morning.

Do something similar to get to 30 grams for your midday meal, and then consume no more than 30 grams of protein for dinner.

Many of my patients are in the best shape of their lives after fifty by simply bringing back the balance that helps them shed the fat, build muscle, and look younger.

25-41~42 광고에 대한 찬반 입장
People who criticise advertising in its current form argue that advertisements create false wants and encourage the production and consumption of things that are incompatible with the fulfillment of genuine and urgent human needs.

Advertising, it is claimed, is an irrational system which appeals to our emotions and to anti-social feelings which have nothing to do with the goods on offer.

Advertisements usually suggest that private acquisition is the only avenue to social success and happiness - they define private acquisition and competitiveness as a primary goal in life, at the expense of less tangible rewards like better health care and social services.

The consumer economy is said to divert funds from socially useful and human needs and make us greedy, materialistic and wasteful.

On the other hand, those who defend advertising say that it is economically necessary and has brought many benefits to society.

It contributes to society’s well-being and raises people’s standard of living by encouraging the sales of mass-produced goods, thus stimulating production and creating employment and prosperity.

Those people who would do away with advertising are accused of trying to deny cheaper goods and services to the majority, and of being puritanical, elitist and economically shortsighted.

Furthermore, the champions of advertising say that people are perfectly free to ignore advertisements and that ads do not brainwash people because a number of advertising campaigns fail to attract customers.
































25-43~45 친구의 생명을 구한 일화
In the year 1960, two friends - 15-year-old Mark Seath and 14-year-old Gordon Kilmer - went boating in a 14-foot aluminum boat along with Gordon’s pet dog.

Unfortunately, the boat capsized after sailing for a while.

They grabbed onto the boat, but their weight pulled the boat completely underwater, so for 15 minutes they took turns holding on to the boat.

The water was cold, and they decided to swim for shore.

Unfortunately, Mark had suffered from polio when he was younger, and polio had affected his strength.

After swimming for a while, he sank into the lake.

Gordon dove after him and brought him to the surface.

Mark panicked and grabbed Gordon, who had to break free from him or be drowned.

Mark even grabbed the dog’s tail and pulled the dog underwater, but when he saw air bubbles coming from the dog’s mouth, he released the dog, thinking, “If I’m going, I’m not taking the dog with me.”

After that, Mark does not remember anything.

He became unconscious, and Gordon was able to tow him to the shore and give him mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.

Mark recovered fully, and Gordon was awarded the 1960 Young American Medal for Bravery.

When President John F. Kennedy awarded Gordon the medal, Mark was with him.

President Kennedy gave them a tour of the Oval Office and then he looked at Gordon, who was holding the medal, and at Mark, who was not holding anything.

President Kennedy unclipped his gold clip - which was in the form of President Kennedy’s World War II boat, PT 109 - from his necktie and gave it to Mark, saying, “I think you should have something, too.”
